ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2009

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

The statutory statement concerning corporate social
responsibility for the Arkil Group is a part of the
Management’s review in the Annual Report for 2009
and covers the financial period 1 January to 31
December 2009.
Reinforcement of wind turbine foundation

The Arkil Group carries out construction work,
including asphalt production based on departments in
Denmark, Germany and Ireland as well as production
of Inpipe liners in Sweden.
The Group wishes to expand its business in a way,
which is both socially and financially sustainable.
Apart from complying with legislation on all the
plants, it is also the Group’s policy to live up to
ethical codex in respect of both environmental and
work related conditions and avoid corruption.
The work in respect of corporate social responsibility
is deeply rooted in the Arkil Group’s values and is a
natural part of the organisation’s behaviour towards
the outside world.
The Arkil Group’s codex of business principles is
available on Arkil’s website – www.arkil.dk.

Environmental conditions

In 2009, the Arkil Group has continued to focus on
environmental impacts. Arkil regards environmental
conditions in a broad perspective, and this covers

26

ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2009

both the external and internal environment, including
working environment.
Environmental conditions are thus viewed broadly
and are always part of the projects carried out in the
departments and companies included in the Group. In
2009, the building and construction industry showed
increased awareness and focus on working environment. This trend will also prevail in the years to
come. It is therefore important to maintain constant
focus on a safe environment in the company.
The departments in the Asphalt division are certified
in accordance with the quality standard ISO 9001, the
environmental standard ISO 14001, the working
environment standard OHSAS 18001. In addition, all
our asphalt products have been CE marked in
accordance with DS/EN 13108. In November 2009, the
Asphalt division was recertified in accordance with
the 3 ISO standards. The management system is
described in a handbook covering the 3 ISO standards
as well as the standard DS/EN 13108.

Safety

Arkil’s safety policy is our pledge to bring down the
number of work accidents through an active and
targeted effort to the Group’s goal of: Zero work
accidents and zero absences due to work accidents.
Safety representatives were elected in 2009. 38 safety
representatives have been elected for the period
2009-2011. Re-elections have taken place, and new
people have been elected. It has not been difficult to
find candidates, which proves that there is a sound
interest in the working environment within Arkil.
In 2009, the establishment of local health and safety
committees was a significant and important task in
all sections. Accordingly, 15 local health and safety
committees have now been established. The incentive
for this changed structure of the safety work is to
place more emphasis on the working environment in
the divisions. The local conditions applying are best
known within the individual departments, and, thus,
the departments are best suited to come up with
solutions to specific questions regarding working
environment that arise in the departments. A
significant task for the local health and safety
committees is to investigate the causes of work
accidents and assess the risks of existing and new
work processes. Implementation of work place

27

assessment as well as assistance concerning guidance
and training instruction is also important working
areas for the local health and safety committees.
Executive and unifying for these health and safety
committees is the main health and safety committee
with representatives from all sections of the company.
The main health and safety committee’s task is to
coordinate work on the working environment. The
main health and safety committee handles questions
regarding the working environment, which is of general importance to all sections. This takes place
through information, campaigns and inspections.
Thus, it is encouraging to see that the accident
frequency dropped from 26 in 2008 to 22 in 2009.
This is a trend which we hope will continue in the
years to come with increased focus on the working
environment, partly from the newly established local
health and safety committees as well as a general
raising of the awareness of the company’s working
environment. The accident frequency is expected to
be in line with industry average.
The number of work accidents in 2009 was 42, with a
total of 946 absence days. Unfortunately, we have
seen an increase in the frequency of absence due to
accidents. In 2008 the number was 2.3 absence hours
for every 1,000 work hours, but in 2009 the number
was 3.7 absence hours for every 1,000 work hours.
This is the highest level in several years. An explanation in the increase in the frequency of absence due
to accidents is that out of the 42 work accidents, 7
alone account for 699 absence days, or almost 75% of
the absence. It is mainly back injuries and fractures
that causes the long periods of absence. Both the
main health and safety committee as well as the local
health and safety committees are aware of the nature
of these accidents.
Without doubt, the goal still remains zero work
accidents and zero absence days. Increased focus on
preventive actions and strengthening of safety work in
the departments are the means to achieving this goal.
Again in 2009, safety related courses were held, more
specifically: Training in occupational health and the
courses “Vejen som arbejdsplads” (The Road as a
Workplace) and ”Pas på banen” (Take Care on the
Tracks). All intended to raise awareness and increase
focus on a safe work environment.

ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2009

The trend in accident frequency rates and absenteeism
due to accidents can be seen in these diagrams.
A c c i d e n t f re q u e n c y 2 0 0 4 – 2 0 0 9

40,0
30,0
25,0

Arkil’s knowledge and competence has been built up
around the Group’s organisation and employees.

The knowledge and capabilities of its employees are
important elements in making it possible for the Arkil
Group to make a difference. This is why every year
the company invests significant resources in the
maintenance and development of the employees’
skills.

20,0
15,0
10,0
5,0
2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

0,0

Entire industry

Arkil A/S

Wo r k a b s e n c e 2 0 0 4 – 2 0 0 9
Fraværet beregnes som antallet af tabte arbejdstimer
pr. 1.000 præsterede arbejdstimer
6,0
5,0
4,0
3,0
2,0
1,0
2009

2008

Entire industry

2007

2006

2005

0,0
Arbejdstimer

2004

Hours lost per 1000 man-hours worked

Knowledge and competence

Competency development and initiatives to recruit
and maintain employees is of high priority in the
Arkil Group

35,0

2004

Accidents per 1 million man-hours worked

Accident frequency is calculated as the number
of accidents per 1 million man-hours worked

In 2009 the percent of sickness absence in the Danish
companies amounted to 4.43%, compared to 3.84% in
2008.

Arkil A/S

The official 2009 numbers for the industry have not yet
been published.

Sickness absence

Avoidance of sickness absence is of high priority in
the Arkil Group, and the development in sickness
absence is monitored closely by the Management. The
development in sickness absence is analysed by the
Group’s Human Resource department in cooperation
with the Management, and necessary measures are
taken should the analyses reveal a need for this.

The staff at Arkil is dedicated and stable and possess
a high level of expert knowledge on the Group’s
business areas.
Through the staff and educational policy that has
been formulated, the Group attempts at all times to
maintain and extend the knowledge and competence
of the employees and to attract new, experienced
employees. The knowledge and skill of our employees
are nurtured and further developed through both
external and internal courses and through involvement in execution and management of different
projects and special assignments. Direct collaboration
between the Group’s departments and business areas
both in Denmark and abroad is being developed
continuously and is helping to guarantee greater
sharing of experience and knowledge.
Arkil has a rota system for newly qualified engineers.
The rota system is a goal-oriented procedure that will
enable the newly qualified engineers to become
familiar with the Group’s many different work and
business areas.
A number of courses called “The road to the future”
were established in 2009 for all employees at Arkil.
The road to the future is to give all employees a
feeling of correlation and an understanding of
strategies, values and good management in the
Group. Moreover, these courses are intended to
strengthen internal communication, cross-disciplinary
cooperation and knowledge sharing between the
business areas.

28

ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2009

In 2009 the Group employed 1750 members of staff,
where 344 are administrative staff. 191 members of
the staff have an engineering or technical background.