CSR
2009

	 2	 Corporate Social Responsibility 2009

Content

Bavarian Nordic and Corporate Social Responsibility

3

Ratios

4

Corporate social responsibility policies	



5

Environment	 

6

Employees	



8

Suppliers	

10

Auditor’s report	

11

Reporting principles and practice	

12

		

Corporate Social Responsibility 2009 	 3

Bavarian Nordic and
Corporate Social Responsibility
Bavarian Nordic develops and manufactures innovative vaccines for
the prevention and treatment of life-threatening diseases where
there is a large medical need as yet unmet.

The process, from early research on development and testing,
to the production of the vaccines, is subject to thorough internal
quality control and to strict external regulations of the health authorities. There are severe requirements and regulations for the
finished product, and it is therefore critical for the company and
its success that we have built-in responsibility for every stage of
the process.
As from the financial year 2009, companies are obliged to give
an outline of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) under
the Annual Accounts Act. Hence, Bavarian Nordic has prepared
this report, which forms part of the Management Commentary
as underwritten by the Board and Corporate Management on 9
March 2010.
We define our work on social responsibility on the basis of a
number of interest groups and will initially focus on the environment, employees and suppliers. Eventually we will assess
whether it is appropriate to involve other interest groups.
Gathering existing objectives and policies in
an overall strategy
We have no formal overall policy on social responsibility, but
for some years now we have worked on specific objectives and
policies in a number of different yet relevant fields. The aim is to
bring these goals and policies together in a comprehensive policy
on CSR, which will become an integral part of the company’s
overall strategy and which we shall look at regularly, and adjust
if need be.

1

http://www.globalreporting.org

The objectives we are working on are a natural extension of
existing activities that are relevant to our social responsibility.
We aim to ensure that all conditions reported on, directly or
indirectly, are of relevant commercial importance to the future
development of the company. The primary theme of our report is
the environment, which is based on our research of the environment using the green accounts submitted since 2005, when
the production facility in the Kvistgård came into use. Besides
environmental issues, we have chosen to concentrate on matters
relating to employees and suppliers.
Structure of the report
The preparation of the report is inspired by elements in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)1, which is a recognised framework
for reports on sustainability. The GRI structure sets out principles
and indicators used to measure and explain financial, environmental and social performances.
Bavarian Nordic has offices and facilities in six different locations
in the world, spread over four countries. Local differences in the
requirements for and recording of statistics on environmental
concerns, working hours, absences etc. make it a challenge to
carry out a consistent, adequate and accurate reporting across
the group of the areas we have chosen to include in the report.
For this reason the 2009 report focuses primarily on our two largest facilities; Kvistgård in Denmark and Martinsried in Germany.
We are continuously working on harmonising methods and
principles to ensure quantifiable statistics for the entire group in
the future.

	 4	 Corporate Social Responsibility 2009

Ratios

	

Total	

Carbon Footprint (tCO2)	

Kvistgård	

Martinsried	

Berlin	

Mountain View	

Washington	 Singapore

2,543 	

X	

X	

-	

-	

-	

-

Work accident rate*	

15.0	

X	

X	

X	

X	

X	

X

Absence (leave not included)	

4.9%	

X	

X	

X	

-	

-	

-

Average number of employees,
full-time	

340	

177	

101	

26	

30	

4	

2

X = forms part of the ratio calculation
* (Accidents per million man-hours)

It has not been possible to integrate all company facilities in all
ratio calculations, either due to data unavailability or because
inventory methods vary from country to country. Therefore, we
have in this first report chosen to focus primarily on our two

largest facilities: Kvistgård (industrial manufacturing, quality laboratories, technical service and administration) and Martinsried
(research and development), which account for more than 80%
of all employees in the Group.

		

Corporate Social Responsibility 2009 	 5

Corporate social responsibility policies

Environmental policy
In Bavarian Nordic we organise our vaccine production in a way
which prevents the virus from escaping through the air, waste
water, or other waste, into the surrounding environment. At
Bavarian Nordic we continuously strive to improve our environmental efforts. Our objective is to:
•	 promote environmental awareness and pollution prevention
throughout the company
•	 reduce our impact on the environment by:
	 •	 developing and implementing environmentally-conscious
processes
	 •	 optimising the use of materials and energy
	 •	 reducing emissions and waste
•	 comply with environmental legislation and relevant
requirements
•	 gradually build up an environmental management system according to the principles of the ISO 14001 Standard.

Working environment policy
A healthy and safe working environment is important for the
employees’ welfare and safety at work, and Bavarian Nordic therefore works systematically, targeting the mapping of both the
physical and the psychological working environment - with the
aim of taking the necessary preventive measures to the benefit
of both the individual employee and the company as a whole.
The objectives for the overall working environment policy are to:
•	 promote awareness of occupational health and safety practices
for all employees as part of their daily work, and work towards
proactive solutions to potential problems
•	 meet safety regulations and relevant requirements
•	 gradually develop a management system to facilitate the
proactive safety work
Supplier policy
Bavarian Nordic has comprehensive procedures to ensure that
suppliers meet the high quality standards we require, and we
carry out inspection visits with the individual suppliers to ensure
compliance with these requirements. At present we do not have
a policy for our suppliers in relation to social responsibility, but it
is our objective to include guidelines for social responsibility in
our future relationship with them. These guidelines will form the
basis of our policy on the social responsibility of our suppliers.

	 6	 Corporate Social Responsibility 2009

Environment

The environment plays a major role in Bavarian Nordic and has
been an important focus for the company ever since the establishment of the production facility in Kvistgård. In designing the
plant in Kvistgård the company focused on reducing environmental impact, and the company has since worked to introduce
cleaner technologies through the development and adaptation
of technology already in use, including the reduction of the
environmental impact by reducing energy consumption and use
of accessory agents.

print’), which details the emission of greenhouse gases (C02) of
the company’s two largest facilities in Kvistgård and Martinsried.

Since the initial operation of the production facility in 2005, we
have published the ‘Green Accounts’ once a year. These give an
outline of the environmental conditions in the company, including, among other things, an inventory of energy and water consumption and emissions and waste at the Kvistgård facility. The
green accounts are compiled according to order by the Danish
Ministry of the Environment and can be found on the company
website.

The first real mapping of energy consumption took place at our
facilities in Kvistgård, Denmark, and Martinsried, Germany, which
house research and quality laboratories, administration and
production. In total, these two facilities engage around 80% of
all employees in Bavarian Nordic.

From the year 2009 we have decided to integrate parts of the
green accounts in the corporate social responsibility report. To
this end, we have developed a climate account (‘Carbon foot-

Carbon footprint
The company’s climate account, ‘Carbon footprint’, has been
calculated for 2009 and will be included in the corporate social
responsibility report in the future. The climate account presents
the company’s energy consumption and resulting emissions,
expressed in tonnes of CO2, and covers several GRI indicators.

Up to now, Bavarian Nordic has not established a proper target
for reducing its C02 emissions, but is working on reducing future
relative emissions. Since the company expects an increase in
production at the facility in Kvistgård over the coming years, and
has not at present compiled the CO2 emissions for all the group's
facilities, it is expected that total emissions for the coming years

Carbon Footprint
Release of greenhouse gases (tCO2)	

Kvistgård	

Martinsried	

Total

Direct emissions			
Heating 	

881	

93	

974

Fugitive emissions	

6	

0	

6

Transport (vehicles)	

60	

8	

69

Indirect emissions			
Purchased electricity	
Purchased heating	
Purchased refrigeration	
Total emission of greenhouse gases (tCO2)	
tCO2: Tonnes CO2 or equivalent gases

1,200	

294	

1,494

0	

0	

0

0	

0	

0

2,148	

395	

2,543

		

will exceed 2009. Nevertheless, the company is currently working
on optimising production processes and therefore expects that
relative emissions in the future will be lower than in 2009.
The total emission of greenhouse gases in 2009 was approx.
2,500 tonnes of CO2 equivalents, corresponding to emissions from
around 400 average households2.
The largest sources of emissions from the Kvistgård facility
are electricity consumption, followed by combustion of natural
gas for heating. Electricity is used for ventilation, refrigeration
compressors, process equipment, refrigerators and freezers, air
compressors, office equipment and lighting. Natural gas is used
for heating and steam production.

Objective: In 2010 we aim to
include more group facilities
when calculating the group’s
CO2 emissions.

2

Danish Ministry of Climate and Energy, Pöyry Energy Consulting

Corporate Social Responsibility 2009 	 7

	 8	 Corporate Social Responsibility 2009

Employees
Over the past few years, Bavarian Nordic has transformed itself from
a pure research and knowledge-based business into a fully integrated
company with its own production, employing a vast number of
professional groups.
The composition of employees has changed significantly, a development which places great demands on the company – forcing it to constantly adapt itself to be able to develop and attend
to the individual employee's qualifications and interests in the
best possible way.

The company systematically applies itself to the working environment, continuously mapping it through workplace assessments. Against this background, relevant measures for improvement are set out and prioritised in an action plan, with the aim
of implementing improvements on a continuing basis.

As a modern research enterprise, we are an innovative business
and as such always capable of attracting talented employees.
Employees, and their knowledge, are the company’s most valuable asset, and obviously we have a great responsibility towards
them. Our responsibility is not only to ensure the safety and
wellbeing, and the provision of individually-tailored challenges
for each and every one of our employees, but is also a responsibility to encourage the social interactivity between employees
and employee groups.

In 2009, the areas of effort in Kvistgård have been focused on
the improvement of cleaning procedures, conditions of meetingrooms and the dining area, and draught nuisance in administrative areas.

At Bavarian Nordic we place focus on wholeness and aim at
ensuring a good and healthy balance between work and leisure
time. In Kvistgård, all employees are covered by health insurance, which secures fast and professional help and treatment in
private hospitals, appointments with psychologists, chiropractors
and physiotherapists etc., should the need arise.
At the workplace we hold seminars on stress management, and
we have been actively engaged for several years in dialoguebased interviews with employees who have prolonged absences
due to sickness. These interviews ensure a fast, but gentle and
individually-focused return to work.
Social activities are an important component of a balanced
life. Backed by the management, an active employee club in
Kvistgård currently launches new initiatives to meet the various
interests of the employees.
A safe and good working environment
We must always ensure that employees can perform their work
without risking life or limb, and we are continuously working on
optimising safety at work. In 2009 we had 9 minor accidents, corresponding to an accident rate of 15.03 for the entire company4. In
2008, the accident rate among Danish companies was 25.15.
Out of the 9 accidents, 7 of them occurred among employees
in production. These are primarily minor injuries, which do not
relate to the execution of the job, and only one employee had
more than 3 days’ related absence.
3

The accident rate expresses the number of accidents per million man-hours

4

The number applies to the entire Bavarian Nordic group

Areas of effort for Kvistgård in 2010 are as follows:
•	 Carrying out regular working environment inspections
•	 Uncomfortable working postures in production group, QC group
and engineering group
•	 Noise Survey of working conditions and action plan if necessary
•	 Investigation of fall injuries and action plan if necessary

Objective: Our objective remains to minimise the number
of accidents at work through
preventive measures, with special focus on the areas where
most accidents occur.
Absence
In 2009, the overall absence in Bavarian Nordic reached an
average of 10 days per employee, equivalent to an absence rate
of 4.9%6, which is lower than the average for the pharmaceutical
industry, which lies at 6.7% (2008 figures)7.
At present, the registration of absences at the company's various locations is not standardised across the group. These local
differences mean that the overall picture of registered absences
is unclear. The aim for 2010 is to develop uniform guidelines and
to implement an effective system for the registration of absences
across the group, so in 2011 we shall have one standardised
system.

5

Confederation of Danish Industry, Accidents at work, Business statistics 2009

		

Objective: In the coming years,
the aim of the company is to
develop uniform guidelines and
implement an effective system for registration of absences
across the group.
Personal and organisational development
Development opportunities are not only important to ensure
recruitment and retention of qualified employees, but also mean
that the employees can realise their full potential - thereby ensuring the company's competitiveness.
It is imperative that our employees have the necessary tools
to solve tasks in a competent manner, now and in the future.
We have annual employee development interviews which we

6

Includes employees in Kvistgård, Martinsried and Berlin.

7

Confederation of Danish Industry, Absence statistics, 2009

Corporate Social Responsibility 2009 	 9

follow up on and adapt according to current needs. Naturally, we
comply with the high standards of ongoing education and the
updating of qualifications under trade regulations, national laws
and agreements, but our objective does not state a number of
training hours per employee. For us the objective is that employees and managers, as a minimum, have the competency to apply
for, and get, their own jobs – at any time.

Objective: We will explore the
possibility of setting up a central system for registration of
activities relating to continuing
education and updating of
qualifications.

	10	 Corporate Social Responsibility 2009

Suppliers
As an integral part of Bavarian Nordic's policy on social responsibility, we
wish to develop a set of guidelines for our relationship with suppliers of
raw materials.

In accordance with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and
Bavarian Nordic’s existing supplier management, all suppliers
of raw materials are subject to inspections (audits), before final
agreements are concluded. Thus the company is well positioned
to influence the suppliers' own commitment to socially responsible activities.
Today, looking at conditions relating to social responsibility is not
a part of the already comprehensive inspections that take place,
but will be integrated into future reviews of both existing and
new suppliers.
It is our objective in 2010 to establish assessment criteria for
our suppliers. In 2011 we will integrate the principles of social
responsibility into the purchasing function on the basis of these
assessment criteria. The aim is to have a data base that can
form the basis for reporting of supplier conditions in the annual
report for 2011 (Spring 2012). This will ensure that the guidelines
become an important integral part of our relationship with sup-

pliers. The intention is to implement the new guidelines in the
assessment of all relevant and major suppliers.
On the basis of these assessments, Bavarian Nordic can subsequently indicate where improvements are needed in order to
encourage a "best practice" approach in close cooperation based
on communication and education.

Objective: In 2010, we wish to
set a goal of establishing a
system to assess suppliers of
raw materials in relation to
social responsibility, including
environmental conditions.

		

Corporate Social Responsibility 2009 	 11

Auditor’s report
To the Group management of Bavarian Nordic A/S

We have performed a review of Bavarian Nordic’s report on corporate social responsibility 2009 (“the Report”). The purpose of
our review was to submit a statement here on. The management
of the company is responsible for the Report. Our responsibility is
to provide a conclusion based on our review of the Report.
The performed review
We have performed our review in accordance with the Danish
auditing standard on assurance engagements (“RS 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical
financial information”). It has been our purpose to obtain limited
assurance that the data at Group level presented in the Report
are in accordance with the described reporting practice and
information reported to headquarters from production sites and
other business units. By agreement we have reviewed data at
Kvistgaard on a sample basis, but we have not reviewed the data
at other production sites and business units.
Our review is based on an evaluation of risk of material errors.
We have evaluated the reporting practice and analyzed correlations with the company’s activities. The review is limited to first

of all include inquiries from management and employees as well
as analytical procedures, and a limited level of assurance is thus
lower than the assurance which would have been obtained if we
had performed an audit.
Conclusion
During our review, nothing came to our attention that caused
us to believe that the data at Group level overall are not in accordance with the described reporting principles and practice and
information reported from production sites and other business
units.
Copenhagen, 9 March 2010
Deloitte
Statsautoriseret Revisionsaktieselskab
Preben J. Sørensen
State-authorised Public Accountant

	12	 Corporate Social Responsibility 2009

Reporting principles and practice

The CSR report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual
Accounts Act, which requires companies to give an outline of
their corporate social responsibility
The preparation of the report is inspired by elements in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a recognised framework
for reports on sustainability. The GRI structure sets out principles
and indicators used to measure and explain financial, environmental and social performances. The GRI framework is not a
check list, but we use it as inspiration in our continued reporting
process.
The reporting scope has been defined by a principle of materiality. Thereby we strive to include the most significant issues, where our company directly or indirectly impacts on the
surroundings. Our production is one of the primary sources of
environmental impact from our company. Through the Carbon
Footprint calculation included in this report, and our green accounts which are published once a year, we aim for transparency
in our reporting on environmental issues.
Our production and derived activities (quality control etc.) are
also the primary consumer of raw materials, and thus we regard
it as relevant to include the supply chain in our report. Today,
looking at conditions relating to social responsibility is not a part
of the already comprehensive inspections that take place, but
will be integrated into future reviews of both existing and new
suppliers.
Being the first CSR report from Bavarian Nordic, it has not been
possible to integrate all company facilities in all ratio calculations,
either due to data unavailability or because inventory methods
vary from country to country. Therefore, we have in this first
report chosen to focus primarily on our two largest facilities in
Kvistgård and Martinsried. With almost 180 employees, Kvistgård
accounts for more than half of all the Group’s employees and
covers our industrial manufacturing facility, quality laboratories,
technical service and administration. Martinsried is our centre
of research and development and employs approximately 100
employees.

Carbon Footprint
The Carbon Footprint has been calculated using the standard
and recommendations for calculating a company’s total set
of greenhouse gas emissions, issued by the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Initiative . This includes the six gases designated in the
Kyoto Protocol: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF6 and is expressed
in equivalent tons of carbon dioxide. The emission sources are
divided into three scopes, that include direct emissions from activities controlled by the company (scope 1), emissions from use
of electricity (scope 2) and indirect emissions from products and
services (scope 3). According to the recommendations, companies should separately account for and report on scopes 1 and 2
at a minimum, and this is what we have done in this report.

Establishing a base
We have calculated the total carbon emission from our facilities
in Kvistgård and Martinsried with regard to establishing a base
for four different types of emission:
Consumption of natural gas and oil
The figure is based on the current consumption according to
monthly readings. Greenhouse gas emission from combustion
of fossil fuels is calculated on the basis of an average emission
factor.
Refrigerant leakage
This is calculated leakage from refrigeration systems according to
the refill log. Greenhouse gases included in this statement cover
the six gases designated in the Kyoto Protocol: CO2, CH4, N2O,
HFCs, PFCs and SF6.
Electricity consumption
Consumption of electricity based on meter readings at the end
of 2009. Greenhouse gas emission from electricity consumption
is calculated on the basis of specific emission factors from the
energy supplier and an average emission factor for production of
electricity in Germany.
Mileage
The figure is derived from petrol station receipts and covers both
company owned as well as leased vehicles. Greenhouse gas
emission is calculated on the basis of an average fuel specific
emission factor for ordinary cars in Denmark and Germany.
Absence
Reports of absence for 2009 cover only Bavarian Nordic’s employees in Kvistgård, Martinsried and Berlin, and include records of
employees' own absences due to illness, sick children, hospital
visits and admissions and absences due to work accidents. Leave
of absence, including maternity leave is not included in the calculation.
When calculating the absence rate, the following is applied: the
average annual number of full-time employees, multiplied by
the number of workdays, divided by the number of total days of
absence.
Accidents
The report on accidents at work covers the whole Bavarian
Nordic group and includes accidents which result in more than 1
day's absence.
When calculating the accident rate, the following is applied: the
total number of man-hours in the group in 2009, calculated on
the basis of the average annual number of full-time employees,
multiplied by the number of annual man-hours. Holidays are not
included.

