SPECIAL RISKS

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Brødrene A & S Johansen A/S has prepared a
report on social responsibility that includes
the company’s social responsibility policy,
how AO translates its social responsibility policy into action and the company’s evaluation

of what has been achieved as a result of thecompany’s work with social responsibilityduring the financial year.The mandatory report on social responsibilityfor the 2009 financial year can be viewedor downloaded from www.ao.dk/Portals/0/HR/investor/crs-politik.pdf.ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUESThe administration of Brødrene A & O JohansenA/S and the central warehouse inAlbertslund have been environmentally certifiedaccording to DS/EN ISO 14001 since1999. The Vaga Teknik branch, which is locatedtogether with the new logistics centrein Horsens, has been environmentally certifiedaccording to the same standard since2001 and in October 2008 the entire landregister at the new logistics centre in Horsensbecame certified.In connection with the annual review of thecompany’s environmental management system,the company’s overall objectives for itsenvironmental policy for 2009 were definedas follows:• The company must recycle more than 60%of its total waste.• The environmental impact caused by thecompany in connection with its distributionof goods is to be relatively reduced.According to analyses for 2009, the companyrecycled 68% and 77% of its total waste at thecentral warehouse and the logistics centre,respectively. The objective to relatively reducethe environmental impact caused bythe company in connection with the distributionof goods was met in 2009.In 2009 the rental and service functions andthe new warehouse facilities at Herstedvang6 in Albertslund were the subject ofpre-certification, and the final certificationis expected to take place at the end of 2010.In 2009 it was also decided and implementedthat all AO’s 47 outlet stores should be subjectto the same requirements to waste sortingas the certified addresses.

Evoleska Holding AG
Seerosenstrasse 20
CH-6362 Stansstad
Switzerland

Other registered shares
Unregistered shares
Total excl. treasury shares
Treasury shares
Total

16

ANNUAL REPORT 2009

Votes in %

