42

ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2009

ENVIRONMENTAL
REPORT – CSR

ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
n

n

n

We are committed to improving our operations and
activities on an ongoing basis in order to reduce our
energy consumption and our impact on the environment.
We will regularly record and analyse our energy consumption and environmental impact, and disseminate
knowledge of company environmental policy among
our staff in order to ensure a high degree of awareness
about environmental issues.
We will continuously develop and extend our technical
expertise in order to ensure constant progress towards
more sustainable operations.

Most of DFDS’ impact on the surrounding environment is associated
with the operation of ships, and therefore the environmental work is
focused on reducing emissions, as well as developing and implementing
new environmental technology. The marine environment is protected
by national and international laws and regulations, and DFDS respects
and supports the continued development of rules designed to make
shipping more sustainable in the future.
REDUCING EMISSIONS

DFDS is focused on reducing emissions of harmful substances from
ships’ engines using bunker. In particular, the work is directed at cutting
emissions of CO2, NOx, SOx and particles into the atmosphere.
CO2: In 2007, DFDS set a target of a 10 % reduction (adjusted
for capacity changes) in emissions of CO2 over a five-year period.
Bunker consumption and emissions are measured continuously on
all ships, and the results are distributed throughout the fleet. In 2009,
bunker consumption was approximately 13 % lower than in 2008.
However, most of this decline reflects the reduction in the number
of sailings, as capacity has been adjusted to lower demand in the
transport market. In order to distinguish the streamlining of bunker
consumption from fluctuations in capacity, consumption, and therefore
emissions, are quantified per transport unit.
Measured per transport unit, bunker consumption and emissions
in 2009 were reduced by 2.7 % compared to 2008 and by 4.5 % compared to 2007. DFDS is therefore well on its way towards the goal of
a 10 % reduction in CO2 emissions over five years.
The reductions in emissions can be attributed to DFDS’ bunkersaving programme, one element of which is cutting speed – a key factor in reducing consumption and emissions. To this end, projects have
been implemented to ensure faster transhipment in ports reducing
port time and allowing sailing time to rise. Other initiatives include op-

AVERAGE CONSUMPTION OF THE TOTAL FLEET
G/GROSS TONNAGE/NAUTICAL MILE
(g/GT/Nm)
6,3
6,2
6,1
6,0
5,9
5,8
5,7
5,6
5,5
Q1

Q2
Q3
2007

Q4

Q1

Q2
Q3
2008

Q4

Q1

Q2
Q3
2009

Q4

timising engine power and efficiency; better voyage planning; utilisation
of waste heat; and frequent hull cleanings to reduce water resistance.
Information and motivation
Another major factor in this work is motivating staff to contribute
to energy savings. In order to increase motivation, information is
distributed about the environmental policy and objectives, and its
emission-reduction initiatives. This is done on a regular basis through
internal communications that prioritise environmental issues, as well
as through special bulletins about environmental initiatives. A prize of
DKK 50,000 is awarded each quarter to the ship’s crew whose efforts
have resulted in the largest reductions.
Consolidation around larger ships
The most effective way of reducing energy consumption, and therefore CO2 emissions, is fleet renewal. Modern ships’ engines utilise
energy more efficiently, and carry more freight using fewer but larger
ships. In 2009, the ro-ro ships Tor Ficaria, Tor Begonia and Tor Freesia
were each extended by 30 metres, which increased freight capacity
from approximately 3,800 lanemetres to approximately 4,600 lane
metres. Despite a capacity increase of over 20 %, the ships’ energy
consumption only increased marginally, while CO2 emissions were
reduced significantly per lanemetre.
Sulphur (SOx): Ships’ emissions of sulphur are dependent on the
amount of oil burned, and the sulphur content of the fuel oil.
In 2010, two directives issued by the IMO and the EU regarding the
use of low-sulphur bunker come into force in the Baltic Sea and the
North Sea, both of which are designated as ECAs (Emission Control
Areas). One directive came into force in early 2010 limiting the sulphur
content of bunker to a maximum of 0.1 % while in port. The second
directive comes into force in early July, and relates to a reduction of
the sulphur content in bunker from 1.5 % to 1.0 % for shipping in the

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2009

ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

43

COMPARISON OF BUNKER CONSUMPTION PER UNIT
FOR OLDER AND MODERN/LARGER SHIPS

SHIP

YEAR BUILT

LENGTH,
METRES

DEADWEIGHT,
TONS

LANE
METRES

CONSUMPTION
AT 18 KNOTS,
G/NM/LM

1977
1998
2003

169
198
200

9,700
11,080
10,070

1,870
2,770
3,830

58
48
33

2006

230

14,600

4,650

29

Tor Baltica
Tor Selandia
Tor Magnolia
Tor Ficaria
(extended)

Baltic Sea and the North Sea. In the longer term, rules will be introduced that reduce sulphur content in bunker to 0.1 % in 2015.
New environmental technology
Technologies are also being developed to reduce the sulphur content of bunker on board ships. DFDS is collaborating with Aalborg
Industries and MAN Diesel to develop a so-called “scrubber” that can
remove 98 % of sulphur and 70 % of the particles from emissions. In
2010, one such scrubber, which consists of approximately 30 tons of
heavy plant, will be tested as part of the exhaust system on Tor Ficaria.
If it lives up to expectations, the scrubber will be a significant tool
for reducing emissions of sulphur and particles, particularly in urban
areas. The method may also be an alternative to using bunker with
low sulphur content, as the scrubber is expected to be able to reduce
sulphur emissions to at least the same level.
NOx: Ships’ engines expel varying degrees of NOx (nitrogen oxides)
from combustion. These emissions are caused by the combustion temperature, and newer engines are designed to operate at temperatures
that reduce NOx. Emissions are therefore reduced on modern ships
like Tor Fionia, Tor Jutlandia, Tor Corona and Tor Hafnia.
NOx emissions are a particular problem in and around ports.
Ships calling at terminals close to urban and residential areas in Oslo
and Copenhagen therefore use catalytic converters to purify smoke
from their auxiliary engines, which produce power for onboard
consumption.
Another way to reduce emissions of harmful substances while
in port is to use land-based sources of power. This is only possible
in ports that provide power through special coupling points on the
quay. This possibility is currently being assessed, e.g. in Gothenburg, in
collaboration with the port company. At the same time, several options are being evaluated for environmentally friendly onboard power
generation.
CERTIFICATION

DFDS has subsidiaries in several countries in Northern Europe, and
does not currently have joint environmental certification for the whole
Group, but various forms of certification in the various companies.
DFDS has therefore decided to attain joint ISO 14001 environmental
certification. The process has already started on the ro-ro routes from
Gothenburg to Great Britain, Norway and the Continent. Once this
work has been completed, the certification will be gradually extended
to other parts of the Group.
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY SCRAP

It is DFDS’ policy to only sell ships for scrap when it can be guaranteed that the scrapping will be in accordance with national and international legislation, and in accordance with the intentions of the Hong
Kong Convention agreed under the auspices of the IMO in October

2009. The latter is an as yet unratified international regulatory framework designed to ensure responsible scrapping of ships. It is expected
to come into force in 2013. DFDS supports this convention and other
initiatives that, in the meantime, ensure that ships are scrapped in a
responsible fashion in relation to both the surrounding environment
and the working environment. This policy formed the basis for the sale
in early 2010 of a ro-ro ship, Tor Anglia, for scrap to the environmentally certified Jiangmen Yinhu shipyard in China.
BATTERY-POWERED ECO-FRIENDLY CANAL BOATS

DFDS’ subsidiary DFDS Canal Tours operates tour boats in the Port
of Copenhagen and the canals in the centre of the city. The engine
noise and exhaust fumes of the boats place a strain on the surrounding urban environment, and DFDS has decided to develop and deploy
a battery-powered boat, which is recharged at night when the proportion of environmentally friendly produced electricity is highest. The
first of these emission- and noise-free boats has been delivered and
will be operational from the start of the 2010 season. If the el-boat
lives up to expectations, ships of this type are expected gradually to
replace the existing boats.
OTHER PRIORITIES

Work is also being systematically carried out on the processing of
waste and sewage from ships under the rules of the countries in
which they dock. In addition, further work is being done to reduce
noise during calls and stays in port.

44

HR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2009

HUMAN RESOURCES – CSR

Employees’ skills, commitment and wellbeing are crucial to DFDS’
success. The development of human resources and welfare at work
are, therefore, important strategic foundations for the company.

“It is the people that distinguish the successful company
from the less successful one. Our professional and social skills,
along with a constant focus on business results, are what
makes the difference.”
Henrik Holck, Executive Vice President, HR
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT

DFDS’ management programme focuses on developing the individual
managers’ skills through an internal training program called ZOOM.
The programme was developed by Corporate HR and tailored to suit
both the composition of the management team and DFDS’ general
situation. ZOOM consists of two modules. The first is an intensive
course of theory and practical teaching that focuses on the role of
the manager, communication, DFDS’ strategy for staff development,
and exchanges of knowledge and experience between different areas.
The programme also includes input from and dialogue with Group
Management, including the CEO and HR director, about the company’s goals.
The second module consists of practical training. It is important
for this programme that each team comprises leaders from various
fields, including land- and sea-based positions, as well as from the different Northern European countries that make up DFDS’ geographic
business area. The purpose of the modules is to equip managers with
a greater knowledge and understanding not only of the professional
work environment, but also of its social and psychological aspects,
their own role as managers, and their colleagues’ situation. In addition,
a number of targets and opportunities serve to develop the individual
employee in relation to DFDS’ goals and strategy.

“DFDS managers have to generate job satisfaction. Great job
satisfaction generates better results and even greater success…”
Henrik Holck, Executive Vice President, HR

In 2009, approximately 115 managers participated in the ZOOM
course, split almost equally between managers of sea-based and landbased positions. Efforts were made to ensure representation from all
functions, including managers from the deck and engine crews. In 2010,
120 managers are expected to take part, an increasing proportion of
whom will be from outside Denmark.

EMPLOYEE WELLBEING

An important goal for DFDS is that employees thrive in their jobs, and
that the individual employee experiences that DFDS is a workplace
that offers good conditions and opportunities for personal development. In co-operation with external suppliers, extensive studies are
conducted at regular intervals to monitor staff wellbeing. In 2009, about
75 % of staff took part in the survey, the results of which will be used as
a basis for further work to improve and develop DFDS as a workplace.
The study was conducted during the economic crisis of 2009, after
changing market conditions necessitated reductions in staffing levels.
Notwithstanding this difficult background, the survey results showed a
generally high level of job satisfaction that was only marginally below
the level for 2008. In general, satisfaction and motivation were high,
scoring 5.2 (compared to 5.3 in 2008) out of a maximum 7. Loyalty
to DFDS scored 5.9 out of a maximum 7, which was on a par with
2008. Satisfaction with immediate line managers was generally high
(5.7 against 5.8 in 2008), although the study revealed the need for
improving efforts to increase individuals’ opportunities for professional
and personal development.
Further development
The survey from 2009 provides the basis for the further development of DFDS as a workplace in 2010. In addition to identifying areas
for improvement at Group level, the study also provides results for
individual business areas and departments. These results are communicated by the management of the business areas to the individual
departments for information, discussion and follow-up. Each department then submits specific development plans for areas identified as
in need of change or development. A follow-up wellbeing survey will
be conducted in autumn 2011.
Other courses
As well as the management-development programme, a number of
statutory and safety-training courses are held each year for staff at sea,
as well as focus on provision of relevant technical-training courses in
some departments.
Employee development interviews
All employees participate in development review meetings with their
immediate line manager once a year. These reviews focus on the
individual employee’s situation, including the relationship between their
job expectations, their skills and their actual duties. The interview also
covers the employee’s performance in relation to the demands of the
job and their jointly agreed goals for the year.

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2009

HR REPORT

45

RECRUITMENT

INFORMATION

New employees to DFDS are often recruited locally, partly through
recruitment agencies in the various countries, partly via the company’s
website. Other increasingly popular recruitment channels include educational institutions and social networking websites, e.g. Facebook.
In addition to this targeted recruitment of employees, DFDS is
part of Blue Denmark, a joint maritime industry project under the
auspices of the Danish Shipowners’ Association. Blue Denmark aims to
highlight the many good jobs, management positions and development
opportunities in the maritime industry. Its target audience primarily
consists of young people.

DFDS strives to provide employees and managers with quick, open,
clear and credible communication about its development strategy,
especially with regard to changes that may affect individual employees
and the reasons for those changes. The goal is for changes and new
initiatives to be communicated directly to employees via internal
media or meetings before the news is broken by external media
or spread by rumour.
In late 2009, DFDS concluded an agreement, which is expected
to be approved in Q2 2010, to acquire Norfolkline. Making optimal use
of both organisations’ strengths is a prerequisite for the future
success of the combined entity. The merger of the two organisations
will therefore entail a significant focus on HR in order to ensure
continuous, transparent and credible internal communication about
the integration process for both Norfolkline and DFDS staff.

TRAINING OF APPRENTICES AND TRAINEES

Every year, DFDS trains apprentices in economics, as well as shipping,
administration and travel, and this is an important investment in our
future employees. These two-year programmes attract large numbers
of applications, and include practical experience and international cooperation. Shipping apprentices, for example, spend a year at offices
abroad, where they gain personal experience of other countries’ labour
markets and business environments within a secure framework.
In addition, DFDS acts as a work-placement venue, and offers
many opportunities, both on land and on board, for young people
to train as ship’s officers, cooks, waiters, etc.

REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE
(ADJUSTED FOR BUNKER SURCHARGE)
(DKK MILLION)
2,0

DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES
ON LAND AND SEA
(NO. OF EMPLOYEES)
5.000

1,8
4.000

1,6
1,4

3.000

1,2
2.000

1,0
0,8

1.000

0,4

LAND

SEA

2009

2008

2007

2009

2008

0
2007

0,0

SOCIAL INITIATIVES

DFDS has entered into collaboration with “High Five” in order to
create job opportunities for young people with a criminal record.
The aim is to give these disadvantaged young people the chance
to work in a real job with long-term potential. In 2009, a total of
12 former young offenders were employed on ships under this
programme and the results were positive.

