CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
It is a central element in Harboe’s strategy that the group’s continued
growth and development should be sustainable. The eﬃcient utilisation of
resources is of decisive importance to the group’s financial results and continued value creation. At the same time, being conscious of its responsibilities as an integrated part of society is a key element in Harboe’s values.
Sustainable development therefore plays a central role in Harboe’s development activities, and all investments in new production technology, optimisations of existing production facilities and all product and packaging
development take account of the resources involved and the general impact of activities on the environment. Moreover, Harboe is constantly investing in training and development activities to ensure that the group’s
employees are optimally geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and
eﬃcient manner.
It is generally Harboe’s ambition to ensure the continued reduction in resources consumed and in environmental impact relative to the total production volume. At the same time, the aim is for the number of accidents
at work and absence due to illness to be maintained at the current very low
level.
Harboe has for a number of years prepared green accounts for the group’s
factory in Skælskør and is working to implement common reporting
standards within the area of sustainability for the whole group. As part of
this project, Harboe has been making preparations during the year for the
group units to be certified in accordance with international occupational
health and safety standards. This is in addition to the existing quality and
environmental certifications.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
Harboe is pleased to see that continuous investments in increased eﬃciency and optimisation of the group’s production facilities are having a
positive eﬀect on both resource consumption and emissions relative to the
concurrent development in production volume.
One of the initiatives in this context is the switch to natural gas at the
group’s German production facility, which, combined with a number of
other energy-saving investments, has generated satisfactory results.
Harboe’s focus on energy utilisation has also resulted in continuous optimisations at the factory in Skælskør. The establishment of the new evaporation plant for the production of malt extract is an example of how eﬃciency and environmental optimisation can be equal factors in the group’s
investment strategy.

36

Annual report 2008/2009

Harboe also conducts analyses of material consumption in connection
with the production of packaging at regular intervals, and, in the course of
the year, a number of adjustments have been made in production which
have further optimised the utilisation of resources.
Harboe has invested a total of DKK 118.9 million in 2008/09, which includes investments in the optimisation of the group’s production facilities.
Due to the energy-optimising eﬀect of the investments and the use of new
technology for further processing of primary agricultural produce, the
group is eligible for EU funding, and, after the end of the financial year,
Harboe received investment grants of DKK 5.6 million.
Harboe will continue to analyse the possibilities of optimising the group’s
utilisation of resources and production activities, and several concrete
projects are in the pipeline. This strategic work will also be a priority in the
group’s investment plans for the coming year.
RESPONSIBILITY
Harboe’s strategic focus on sustainability is also reflected in its fundamental business ethics and the principles according to which Harboe operates.
Harboe believes that it is important for the group’s staﬀ and employment
policy to reflect this through terms of employment which mirror good
practice and national standards. Furthermore, the company is committed
to the health and safety of its employees by oﬀering training and staﬀ
benefits, including attractive canteen arrangements etc.
In relationships with suppliers and other collaboration partners, Harboe
attaches importance to agreements and contracts being prepared in accordance with international standards and that the ongoing dialogue is
based on mutual professionalism, openness and respect.
Harboe also seeks to assume an active role in the communities in which
the group operates, and Harboe regularly participates in activities benefiting economic and social growth, locally as well as internationally. In the
past year, Harboe has thus been actively involved in research projects,
among other things. The group’s establishment of the ‘IceBeer Climate
Fund’, the purpose of which is to fund research and initiatives for the benefit of the climate is yet another testament to Harboe’s active involvement
in sustainability.

