SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

Royal Unibrew has prepared a set of
ethical guidelines providing the overall
framework for social responsibility
work. The guidelines contribute towards
ensuring that business is conducted on a
proper basis, and that Royal Unibrew
products are manufactured in a
satisfactory manner.

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Royal Unibrew is aware of its social and environmental responsibilities and focuses on continuously
improving efforts in this area by establishing new targets. Royal Unibrew considers the social responsibility
work an important element in developing the Company’s brands and maintaining good relations with internal
and external stakeholders.

40

ROYAL UNIBREW’S ETHICAL GUIDELINES

Health & safety

At Royal Unibrew, social responsibility work is an
integrated part of our business approach, and we focus
on continuously improving our efforts in this area by
establishing new targets. We emphasise concentrating
our efforts at the areas where they will have the highest
impact and in which the need for targeted action is
highest from a risk perspective.
It is the Company’s assessment that the social
responsibility work is an important element in
protecting the Company’s brands as customers can be
certain that Royal Unibrew products have been
manufactured in a satisfactory manner.
Royal Unibrew has prepared a set of ethical
guidelines providing the overall framework for social
responsibility work. The main elements of these
guidelines are as follows:
• Royal Unibrew’s products and production should
meet customer requirements and international
standards for quality, food safety, environment,
working environment and human rights;
• Royal Unibrew engages in open dialogue on its social
responsibility;
• There is focus on the efforts made by Royal Unibrew
suppliers to improve quality and the environment as
well as their general social responsibility work.
In 2009 a number of specific policies were prepared and
a number of activities were launched in the individual
areas.

Royal Unibrew aims at creating a safe and healthy
working environment for its employees and
continuously takes measures to protect employees
from work-related risks.
In Denmark, Royal Unibrew has carried out a health
project with offers for all employees. The project
included a health check, talks on exercise, stop smoking
programmes, fitness test, talks on alcohol and its effects
as well as diet workshops.
The project resulted in, among other things, several
employees being diagnosed with diseases, which are
now being treated.

Royal Unibrew Annual Report 2009

Human rights
Royal Unibrew does not tolerate discrimination of its
employees due to gender, race or religion. Child labour
and slave labour are not permitted, and Royal Unibrew
seeks to ensure that partners and suppliers live up to
this policy. In the supply area, the preparation of
guidelines for assessing suppliers on quality, food safety,
environment and their general social responsibility work.
Royal Unibrew employees have the right to unionise
and the right to strike in accordance with the legislation
in the countries in which Royal Unibrew has activities.

Food safety
In 2009 the international ISO 22000 standard was
implemented at the brewery in Faxe. In 2010 the

!

BOTH ENERGY AND WATER CONSUMPTION DECLINE
Energy consumption per unit produced decreased by 11.5% in 2009 due to efficiency enhancement
and production integrations in Denmark. At the same time, water consumption per unit produced
decreased by 9.9%. In 2010 efforts to reduce environmental impacts will continue.

standard is also expected to be implemented at the
brewery in Odense. ISO 22000 is a management system
within food safety. In connection with the implementation of the standard, all employees attend a course on
hygiene and food safety.

continuously controlling the environmental impacts of
the Company’s production. The discharge of substances
with environmental impact including waste water must
at all times meet regulatory requirements and current
legislation. In recent years, positive results have been
achieved, and efforts are still primarily targeted at:

Responsible alcohol consumption
Royal Unibrew takes responsibility for its communication on beer consumption in relation to advertising,
sponsorships and campaigns, especially with respect to
minors. Royal Unibrew complies with the relevant
legislation in the countries in which the Company’s
products are marketed, and Royal Unibrew participates
actively in Brewers of Europe’s work to ensure
responsible alcohol consumption.

•
•
•
•

Reduction of energy consumption
Reduction of water consumption
Reduction of waste water discharge
Waste recycling

The Danish breweries have environmental certification
under the ISO14001 environmental standard as well as
EMAS registration. A special environmental report is
prepared for production in Denmark.

Competition
Royal Unibrew’s business practice should always
comply fully with competition regulation irrespective
of the place of operation.

Bribery
Bribery is illegal, and Royal Unibrew’s employees may
neither pay nor accept any bribe or inappropriate
payment for the sake of their own or the Company’s gain.

ENVIRONMENT
All Royal Unibrew production units have focus on

Energy
Energy consumption per unit produced for the Group
as a whole decreased by 11.5% in 2009 as compared
to 2008. This was caused by efficiency enhancement,
and in Denmark the full impact of the production
integrations implemented in 2008 was achieved.

Water consumption and waste water
Water consumption per unit produced for the Group
as a whole decreased by 9.9% in 2009 as compared to
2008.

41

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

Waste water discharge per unit produced for the
Group as a whole decreased by 8.5% in 2009 as
compared to 2008. The positive development is due
to efficiency enhancement ad well as production
integrations and sale of production plant with a
relatively high consumption and related discharges.

At some Royal Unibrew breweries, capture plants
have been installed for the carbon dioxide released
in the brewing process. By this, the environment is
protected from carbon dioxide discharges from the
brewery, and at the same time the impact from the
carbon dioxide quantities that the brewery would
otherwise have purchased is saved.

Resources
An important element in improving our environmental
results is the minimisation of all types of waste of
resources. Wastage and shrinkage are currently
measured, both in production and in the rest of the
supply chain, and continuous improvement projects
are implemented.
The change of the distribution structure in Denmark
as well as the change to more disposable materials have
implied, among other things, increased utilisation of
the trucks and lower mileage per hectolitre delivered,
which has resulted in a reduction of CO2 emissions.
Moreover, efforts are directed at increasing the
recycling of water and waste. To the extent possible,
water is recycled in places where water quality is not
so crucial.
Mask and surplus yeast, which are residual products
from production, are sold to local farmers as animal
feed.
Solid waste, such as glass, is returned to the
manufacturer, who uses the returned glass for new
bottles. Plastic is crushed and sold for recycling too.
Royal Unibrew in Denmark recycled 83% of its waste
in 2009. To maintain focus and further improve the
recycling rate, new targets have been established for
2010.

ENERGY CONSUMPTION

In the environmental area, Royal Unibrew will in 2010
continue working at reducing environmental impacts.
Targets and improvements will be realised locally at the
breweries. Our efforts will concentrate on energy and
water savings. Furthermore, working environment and
health & safety will be target areas of high priority. Also
in 2010 targeted efforts will be directed at reducing
Royal Unibrew’s indirect environmental impacts, eg
through the development of lighter packaging and
container types.

Additional information and documentation on
environmental issues of Royal Unibrew
In May 2010 the EMAS registered breweries will issue
their Environmental Report for 2009. This report provides
detailed environmental information on the external and
internal environmental work of Royal Unibrew, Denmark.
The Environmental Report may also be read at our website
(www.royalunibrew.com).

WASTE WATER

WATER CONSUMPTION

Mega joules per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

140

3,5

4,4

120

3,0

4,3

100

2,5

4,2

80

2,0

4,1

60

1,5

4,0

40

1,0

3,9

20

0,5

3,8

0

42

TARGETS FOR 2010

2005 2006 2007 2008 2009

Royal Unibrew Annual Report 2009

0,0

2005 2006 2007 2008 2009

3,7

2005 2006 2007 2008 2009

