Annual Report 2009

Page 2

Active involvement and engagement

ACTIVE INVOLVEMENT
AND ENGAGEMENT
Spar Nord’s corporate social responsibility

Twenty years have passed since Spar Nord issued its first Ethical
Accounting Statement, thus commencing a process that has paved
the way for Danish companies’ reporting on issues beyond ordinary
financial analysis.
After issuing our Ethical Accounting Statement for a number of years, we adjusted the process and reporting methods, and renamed
the report the Quality Accounting Statement. The obvious objective
behind the change was to take a more action-oriented approach
to our drafting and reporting process, thus calibrating it to our
business requirements and making its presence more prevalent in
our daily operations.
In February 2010, simultaneously with the announcement of the
2009 Annual Report, Spar Nord issued its first Corporate Social
Responsibility Report - a natural continuation of our efforts to
strike a balance between the pursuit of financial results and social
responsibility.

POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES
In autumn 2009, Spar Nord Bank’s Supervisory Board adopted
the following mission statement for the Group’s Corporate Social
Responsibility efforts:
ACTIVE INVOLVEMENT AND ENGAGEMENT SPAR NORD’S
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, is something we take seriously at Spar
Nord. However, we prefer to translate this fashionable term into our own language and reality because experience shows that this produces better defined and
more focused action.
At Spar Nord we have therefore grouped all our initiatives and activities relating to
social responsibility under the heading of “Active involvement and engagement”.
Active involvement and engagement relate to very specific behaviour, not abstract
principles. We believe that our responsibility as a company and a financial institution is anchored in close involvement with customers and the local community.
A responsibility and an involvement that are embedded as given elements in our

INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES

history and culture and on which our business depends.

Spar Nord supports the Danish Government’s endeavours to put
Corporate Social Responsibility at the top of the agenda, and we
also support the intentions underpinning international initiatives
like the UN Global Compact and UN PRI. Nevertheless, we have
chosen not to formally commit ourselves to the two UN reporting
initiatives. This decision should be viewed in light of the fact that
we already endeavour to abide by the principles, and also that our
activities are very locally slanted. Thus, in our assessment we could
put our resources to better use if we channel them into other activities than spending them on reporting to the UN.

Active involvement and engagement imply a purely physical proximity and at the
same time a receptiveness and attentiveness. Both aspects are pivotal to Spar
Nord. All our business builds on local decision-making, local presence and active
participation in the local community. We also take pride in placing the customer
first, thereby showing engagement in the advice we give. But our engagement
also manifests itself internally. We listen to our employees and are not afraid to
publish the results in our Quality Accounting Statement. Indeed we also listen
to ourselves, continuously reflecting on our market conduct and on where our
involvement can be of greatest benefit for both the community and Spar Nord.
Engagement, as an intrinsic part of everything we do, is therefore one of our core
values.

Annual Report 2009

Page 3

Active involvement and engagement

Our engagement takes tangible and measurable shape in our annual theme

THEME OF THE YEAR GENDER AND CAREER

topics, which focus on a specific aspect of our business or social responsibility.
We believe the best results are obtained by focusing on one thing at a time. Consequently, our responsibility has evolved over time. This helps ensure that new
actions rest on strong foundations and result in lasting improvements.
The annual theme topic forms part of our Quality Accounting Statement in which
we continuously measure a series of customer, employee and market-related
issues. By introducing a number of special reference points in the Quality Accounting Statement attached to the annual theme topic, we verify that words and
headings are translated into concrete action and tangible improvements for all
parties involved. The Quality Accounting Statement is systematically expanded
over time to include new action areas. Our engagement thus permeates a growing

For almost two decades people have been saying that gender
equality leads to better business. This year’s theme topic, Gender
& Career, thus harmonizes with the ideal of business-driven social
responsibility, its purpose being to promote gender equality, to
maximize talent potential regardless of gender, and to create an
even better match between the Bank’s customers and the staff and
executives who advise them.
Spar Nord’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report can be read in
full at www.sparnord.dk/ir/csr_report.

number of our business areas.
Besides the annual theme topic, Spar Nord has other ways of focusing on issues
of relevance. Each year, together with the Spar Nord Foundation, we spotlight
selected initiatives among our actions. For example, the Foundation annually
identifies lighthouse projects under the chosen theme topic and supports them
financially. In this way both good examples and good ideas are strengthened, and
the annual theme topics therefore have a lasting impact on Spar Nord’s culture
and business.

SPAR NORD S CSR DEVELOPMENT
First CSR Report

Denmark's first
Ethical Accounting
Statement

9 0

990

Quality Accounting
Statement succeeds
Ethical Accounting
Statement

Merger:
Spar Nord created:
“Local and competent”

2000

CSR is born
CSR again on
the agenda

GENERAL CSR DEVELOPMENT

Financial crisis and
banks in dire straits:
“A special responsibility”

20 0
Climate
agenda
explodes

CSR legislation
in Denmark
CSR tops the agenda

