
Corporate social responsibility
LCP’s policies regarding corporate social responsibility
comprise partly our working environment and partly business partners and suppliers. LCP does not expect to make
material investments as a result of the planned initiatives
within corporate social responsibility. Moreover, LCP does
not expect that the activities will require significantly increased administrative resources compared with previously.
ENVIRONMENT
LCP is an emerging speciality pharmaceutical company
without significant production facilities, and hence the
Group’s consumption of energy and other natural resources and its discharges of substances into the air and
water are limited. LCP routinely works with chemical substances, which place stringent demands for comprehensive
environmental and safety efforts to minimize adverse effects on the environment and human health. The Group
complies with applicable legal requirements, directives and
international agreements in the area.
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
The objective of LCP´s working environment policy is to
create continuous improvements in relation to the safety,
health and workplace satisfaction of our employees. In order to continuously improve and ensure that LCP remains
a safe workplace, LCP prepares statistics of the employees
who are absent due to the working environment.

BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS
LCP’s policy for business partners and suppliers is to work
to promote good business conduct and reasonable environmental and social standards with those with whom we
do business.
LCP´s policy for business partners and suppliers is incorporated into our quality assurance system. When entering
into agreements with external business partners and suppliers we ensure that we have a right to make control
visits to our external business partners and suppliers to
ensure that our requirements are met. These control visits
are performed either by ourselves or by external audit
firms.
LCP is in the process of formalizing procedures for the
performance of control visits to major external business
partners and suppliers.
This information forms the statutory report on corporate
social responsibility according to the Danish Financial
Statements Act, Section 99a.
