Management's Report
Responsibility

Corporate Governance

Customers and the Bank alike should experience the creation of value with mutual

vestjyskBANK bases its Corporate Gover-

loyalty as the result. vestjyskBANK is, and

nance policy on recommendations from the

will remain, a modern and value-driven

Committee for Good Corporate Governance,

workplace, which attracts and retains

established by NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen and

competent and committed employees,

Recommendations for the Members of the Da-

who possess the necessary professional

nish Bankers Association.

skills and human qualities.

Refer to vestjyskBANK’s website:

Values: Presence, competence and dy-

vestjyskbank.dk/corporate_governance_GB

namism. These values help manage the
Bank's conduct on a day-to-day basis. We

Statement on Responsibility

wish to be close to our customers and want
to be empathetic, present and engaged.

vestjyskBANK’s policy on responsibility is li-

We use our value-based management

mited to core areas comprising employees,

style as an active management tool, fo-

customers and the local community in which

cussing on the individual employee, and

we play an active part.

it is expected that the individual employee
lives by and takes responsibility for these

Responsibility is an integral part of vestjysk-

values.

BANK’s business and something on which we
have been working for several years via our

As the above indicates, to a great extent, it

vision, mission and values.

is people who are the main focal point. This
means customers, shareholders and emplo-

Mission: It is all about people – people’s

yees, and consequently the local environment

dreams and security. In this regard, the

in which we live as well.

Bank gives three main groups of stakeholders – shareholders, customers and

Here, we describe some of the initiatives we have

employees – equal priority.

taken which help us underline our commitment.

Vision: vestjyskBANK shall be the most

24

attractive cooperation partner. These are

Customers

the areas in which we concentrate our

The goal of vestjyskBANK is to provide good, pru-

long-term, overarching goals for the work

dent advice. In order to meet this goal, in 2009

we perform – our guiding stars. Through

we conducted an exhaustive survey among custo-

healthy growth, vestjyskBANK should

mers and non-customers to determine precisely

consistently be among the most profitable

the things they value in their bank. We want to

banks in Denmark, thereby ensuring the

offer our customers straightforward, clear-cut

greatest degree of influence possible with

products. On the investment side we are offering

regards to its own development and inde-

the products vestjyskVÆRDIPLEJE and vestjysk-

pendence. At vestjyskBANK the customers

PENSIONSPULJER which only contain the secu-

should be serviced by “whole people,” who

rities our customers find easy to understand. We

have a common set of underlying values.

only offer other securities at the customer's re-

quest. Our aim is that customers make use of self-

The law stipulates that our employees are sub-

service options as much as possible with a view to

ject to a duty of confidentiality which helps give

lowering costs for both customers and ourselves.

our customers confidence in our organisation.

On this basis we are offering gebyrfriHVERDAG,

At the present time, vestjyskBANK has not reac-

which will benefit the environment at the same

hed any decision with regard to purposes/secto-

time. gebyrfriHVERDAG is based on electronic

rs for which it will not provide loans. Similarly, the

communication, including correspondence to

Bank has not taken any position on investment

the customer’s e-Boks (an electronic archive).

in securities on the basis of a consideration of

This inducement to self-service will never affect

responsibilities.

the availability of personal one-to-one advice. At
vestjyskBANK it is all about people. Therefore we

Employees

always place the needs of the customer centre-

It is important to vestjyskBANK that our mission

stage and, mostly, we base our decisions on

is implemented on a day-to-day basis. Not only

individual assessments and long-term outlooks.

should employees adhere to it in any contact
with customers, they should also adhere to it

Moreover, it is important to the Bank that our

with regard to other employees.

customers have the option of providing feedback
and filing complaints, either through the website

vestjyskBANK wishes to be a healthy workplace.

or by contacting advisers directly – and the Bank

Employees are offered every assistance possible

listens to every complaint or enquiry. Since our

in order to avoid industrial injuries, particularly

customers are the focal point of our business, it

mouse-related RSI. Furthermore, vestjyskBANK

is important to vestjyskBANK that its relationship

has established the programme “Start a healthy

with customers is highly ethical. This is reflected

habit” which comprises, for instance, health

in the cases that are brought before the Danish

check-ups, the workplace exercise programme

Complaint Board of Banking Services (Penge-

"Arbejdspladsen motionerer" and the cycle-to-

institutankenævnet). In 2009, two rulings were

work programme "Vi cykler til arbejde".

passed in respect of vestjyskBANK out of a total
of 313 for the entire sector, cf. statistics from the

Workplace satisfaction surveys are conducted

Danish Complaint Board of Banking Services.

every 30 months. vestjyskBANK has an efficient

These rulings found in favour of vestjyskBANK.

and effective Working Environment and Cooperation Committee.

In addition, it is important that employees’
remuneration does not affect the advising of

In addition, vestjyskBANK has an alcohol and

customers, which is why vestjyskBANK does

stress policy, the aim of which is to ensure that

not operate any bonus remuneration schemes,

any problems are dealt with promptly.

neither to management nor to employees.
The wellbeing of employees is taken into conIn 2009, accessibility to vestjyskNETBANK

sideration in the form of flexi-time arrange-

(vestjyskBANK's home banking system) was

ments and employee care in the form of a fixed

over 99.9% and is therefore at a satisfactory

amount that can be used to purchase fruit etc.

level.

Furthermore, some vestjyskBANK employees
are employed on a flexi-job basis.

Management's Report
Responsibility

In order to make employees’ contact as rewarding

ting associations to elite sport. One example that

as possible to both parties, it is important that the

springs to mind is Team vestjyskBANK, a cycling

Bank has competent and committed employees.

team launched by our new division in Horsens. The

Employee development interviews are conducted

team consists of 36 notable residents of Horsens,

every year where development opportunities and

among them the town’s mayor. The team cycled

expectations are discussed and, with regard to

from Horsens to Paris, departing on 18 July 2009.

career development, opportunities are available

The team has the backing of a number of firms and

within the organisation for both on-the-job training

individuals who, via sponsorship agreements, help

and job rotation. Furthermore, all managers un-

support a child and youth project in South Africa.

dergo what we call “the industry’s best manager
development programme”, vestjyskVIND, which

Environment

focuses on personal development and strategic

vestjyskBANK would like to contribute to a cleaner

development of the various departments.

environment and healthier lifestyle for everyone but will leave it up to each individual's personal

With regard to the merger between vestjyskBANK

initiative. Therefore, on vestjyskBANK’s website

and Ringkjøbing Bank in 2008, it has been extre-

individuals can find a lot of useful information rela-

mely important that the necessary restructuring

ting to energy and the environment. On the website

was conducted in a responsible manner. Key

you can find information on energy consultants

employees have been involved in this work in the

who are able to give an assessment of your energy

form of task forces whose job it was to come up

consumption and suggestions for making savings.

with suggestions as to how the organisation should

You can also use the Environment calculator, Mil-

be in the future. Since the Bank found it necessary

jøberegneren, to calculate the economic ramifi-

to lay off a number of employees, voluntary redun-

cations of environmental initiatives in the home

dancy schemes with financial incentives for volun-

as well as useful energy-saving tips for reducing

tary resignation were offered. Laid-off employees

your consumption of electricity, water and heating

were offered support in the form of psychological

and getting more out of your car per litre of fuel.

help and assistance in the form of a cash amount
to put towards relevant courses/training in order

Closer to home, in our own premises, we have ini-

to help them in the best way possible.

tiated a number of measures aimed at helping the
environment in the form of sorting of waste, with

To help employees who have retired remain in

the result that environmentally insensitive paper is

contact with the Bank in which they have wor-

sent for recycling and light sources are switched on

ked for several years, vestjyskBANK has a retired

using movement sensors in new buildings and mo-

worker's club.

dernised premises. Furthermore, we have started
making use of video conferences so that we can

Society

reduce transportation to and from meetings, etc.

For vestjyskBANK it is important that it is engaged

It is expected that the use of video conferences

in the local community. This is expressed, for in-

will increase in the coming years.

stance, through vestjyskBANK’s numerous sponsorship agreements with sporting, cultural and

vestjyskBANK does not impose any particular re-

charity organisations. Our sponsorships cover a

sponsibility requirements on its suppliers.

wide spectrum of organisations – from local spor-

26

