possible. In its phthalate policy, Ambu thus commits to
replacing classified phthalates in all its products before
the end of 2017. In 2014/15, Ambu made a three-year
substitution plan and also launched phthalate-free
versions of the King Face Mask products.

Corporate social
responsibility
Corporate social responsibility
Ambu takes a targeted approach to corporate social
responsibility (CSR) based on the strong belief that it
creates value for the company as well as for society if
Ambu takes responsibility through the way in which the
company operates and through its products. Read more
at www.ambu.com/CSR.

Evaluating experience with end-of-life
environmental profiles
In cooperation with external partners, Ambu has
prepared an end-of-life environmental profile for the
aScope 3 videoscope. In the past year, Ambu has
started using end-of-life profiles in its communication
with customers. Experience must be gained with the use
of this type of product information in order to be able to
assess the effect and value of such documentation. The
objective will be transferred to next year’s action points.

Ambu’s CSR work is based on the principles set out in
the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Global Compact is a
set of internationally recognised principles which the UN
encourages businesses worldwide to live up to.

Climate data
Ambu has collected climate data from our production
units with a view to establishing a baseline for future
climate goals. Data have been collected in accordance
with the Green House Gas Protocol (GHGP) Scope 1
and Scope 2 guidelines and converted to CO2e, and a
preliminary baseline has been established. Ambu has
decided to monitor developments for another year in
order to be able to establish a qualified baseline for our
future climate targets. The objective will therefore be
transferred to next year’s action points.

Guidelines on Ambu’s CSR work
1. We work to promote diversity and nondiscrimination in employment.
2. We work for a safe and healthy work environment.
3. We prohibit the use of forced and child labour.
4. We support collaboration with educational
institutions.
5. We focus on reducing Ambu’s environmental impact
in our work on innovation and in the production and
distribution of our products.
6. We use materials efficiently, and strive to optimise
packaging and waste handling.
7. We work to reduce energy consumption.
8. We are committed to abide by the laws and
regulations of the countries in which we operate. In
the absence of adequate laws and regulations, we
refer to recognised international standards and
industry norms.
9. We do not accept bribery or other kinds of
corruption.

Collaboration with educational institutions
Ambu continues to work to strengthen its collaboration
with educational institutions. This has meant, among
other things, that Ambu has taken on more trainees,
interns and students globally for the benefit of both the
company and the students.
Business ethics and human rights
We are consistently working to strengthen our profile
within the areas of human rights and anti-corruption
through our Code of Conduct. In the past year, this policy
has been analysed and reviewed. The work has not yet
been completed and will therefore continue next year.

Organisation of CSR work
A CSR unit has been set up to work with CSR,
comprising employees from Finance, Operations, HR
and R&D. The CSR unit reports to the Executive
Management Team and meets every quarter and on an
ad-hoc basis as and when required.

Initiatives in 2015/16
In the next financial year, focus will be on the following
initiatives:
Continuing the substitution of classified phthalates
in the remaining products
Continuing our work to establish a baseline for
future climate targets
Evaluating
experience
with
end-of-life
environmental profiles
Continuing our collaboration with educational
institutions.

Ambu’s CSR work in 2014/15
Below follows a description of the initiatives mentioned
in the latest annual report. Information is also provided
on the results achieved by Ambu in 2014/15.
Substitution of classified phthalates in products
Ambu is dedicated to ensuring that our products are as
safe for the environment and for patients as at all

26

