CSR REPORT
2015

CONTENTS

Making a Difference	
3
A Word From Our CEO	
4
Built on Science, Driven by People	
5
Caring for the Environment	
7
Product Safety	
8
Suppliers	8
Business Ethics	
9
Human Rights	
9
Independent Auditor’s Report 	
10
Statement on Social Performance	
11
Statement on Evironmental Performance – GLOBAL	
12
Statement on Environmental Performance – PRODUCTION	 14

About the report
This Statutory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), cf.
sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, is part
of the management’s review in the 2015 Annual Report and covers
the financial period January 1 - December 31, 2015.

Bavarian Nordic A/S
Hejreskovvej 10A
DK-3490 Kvistgaard
Denmark

Phone: +45 3326 8383
Fax: +45 3326 8380
CVR no: 16 27 11 87
www.bavarian-nordic.com
info@bavarian-nordic.com

3

CSR REPORT 2015

MAKING A DIFFERENCE
Once a biotech company, now a fully integrated vaccine manufacturer. The story of Bavarian Nordic goes back more than 20
years, and demonstrates the success of transforming science and
technology into a sustainable business, focused on the development, manufacturing and commercialization of vaccines for the
prevention of life-threatening infectious diseases and the treatment of cancer. The real transformation though has taken place
over just the last few years where we have built our manufacturing facility, capable of producing millions of vaccines that could
potentially help protect and save people’s lives, thus contributing
to a healthier and safer society. That is a worthy mission.
And while pursuing our strategy and objectives to remain sustainable and grow our business further through continued investments in research and development, we recognize the importance of protecting the world around us. This commands us to
work and act responsibly in all matters, and we aim to do this by:
•	manufacturing high-quality vaccines.
•	working actively and systematically to minimize our impact
on the environment and climate.
•	maintaining an active dialog with our stakeholders on a local,
national and global level.
•	actively supporting and respecting human rights and labor
standards.
•	providing a safe and healthy working environment for our
staff that includes opportunities for professional and personal
development.
•	communicating our CSR policy to external collaboration partners, including our suppliers.
•	conducting business according to highest ethical standards.

These are our overall CSR policies, which are further specified in
relevant areas throughout this report, in which we particularly
focus on employees, environment, products, suppliers, business
ethics and human rights.
Our CSR goals are driven by rational operational measures that
support our general strategy of creating a profitable business. We
are constantly working to identify areas that are crucial to our
business and are expected to have a positive impact on performance in working towards the CSR targets set.
To ensure that our CSR initiatives are carried out timely and efficiently and to improve transparency on the activities, we have
established a CSR steering committee comprised of senior representatives in the Company, in addition to a CSR working group comprised of representatives from human resources, investor relations &
communications and our environmental, health and safety specialist.
Scope of our reporting
In order to always focus on business relevance, we selected
the areas to be reported based on a principle of materiality: we
endeavored to include the most important ways in which our
company has either a direct or an indirect impact on the world
around us. Our manufacturing facility in Kvistgaard, Denmark,
where also our headquarters are located, is one of the chief
sources of our environmental impact, and we seek to provide a
high degree of transparency by calculating our carbon footprint
and reporting environmental data from this site. Furthermore it
represents almost two thirds of our employees. In addition, we
have included research and development facilities in Germany
and the USA. Taken together, these facilities employ more than
99% of our staff and are by far responsible for the greatest share
of our consumption of energy and raw materials.

NON-FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES
For an explanation of the 2015 figures in the table, see relevant sections on environment and employees.
	

2015	2014	2013	2012	2011	
Included

Carbon footprint, global, tCO2	
3,103	3,543	3,345	3,662	3,813	
K, H, M, C
Carbon footprint, production, tCO2	
2,178	2,417	2,102	2,319	2,565	
K
Carbon footprint, index per batch (1)	
65	85	
109	53	53	 K
Absence rate	
3.9%	3.1%	3.9%	4.3%	3.7%	 K, M
Accidents, number per million
8.2	1.4	2.6	3.8	4.0	 All
working hours (2)	
Employee turnover	
21.6%	13.8%	19.6%	13.7%	14.1%	
All
Number of employees, year-end	
426	437	440	461	452	 All
K: 	Kvistgaard, Denmark (headquarters, production, laboratories)
H: 	Hoersholm, Denmark (leased laboratory facilities - included in 2013)
M:	Martinsried, Germany (offices and laboratories)
C: 	Mountain View, California, USA (offices and laboratories). Relocated to Redwood City, California (only offices) during 2015
(1)
	2009: Index 100
(2)
	Accident rates for 2011-2012 have been calculated on a different basis than accident rates for 2013-2015. See reporting practice on page 11

4

CSR REPORT 2015

A WORD FROM OUR CEO
This is our seventh annual sustainability report, in which we account for our environmental and social performance. During this
period, there has been no such thing as business as usual. While
our strategy and objectives have been clearly defined throughout, we have had new opportunities and challenges arising every
year, requiring us to adjust procedures and processes. Navigating in this ever-changing environment can be difficult, but with
highly skilled and adaptive personnel, we have come through
with great success, also in 2015.
Apart from the initial year of reporting (2009), where we were
only in the early stages as a manufacturing company, mostly
performing process development and testing, 2015 showed the
lowest climate impact thus far - despite increased manufacturing activities. We have managed again to optimize our processes
which in combination with a better utilization of resources have
reduced our overall emissions as well as our water consumption.
The health and safety of our employees remain areas of high
priority, and it is highly satisfying that we again did not record
any serious work-related accidents in 2015. While our overall
staff has decreased slightly over the past few years, our staff in
manufacturing has increased as result of introducing multiple
products. To mitigate the potential risks associated with the new
and highly complex processes, we have recently strengthened

our safety organization. Furthermore, we have an exhaustive
training program for new employees, as well as ongoing training
of our safety organization to ensure a proactive work that aims to
reduce risks of accidents related to our working processes. Therefore, we also see a better and more reliable reporting of health
and safety issues, causing an unfortunate turn in the statistics for
2015, but at the same time providing us a better starting point
for addressing these issues going forward.
In 2016, we will maintain a high activity level in production to
support various new clinical trials in infectious diseases and cancer. We will also continue our preparations for commercial manufacturing of PROSTVAC, and finally, we will continue production
of smallpox vaccine for the U.S. Government. While manufacturing thus seems to have become an important asset to Bavarian
Nordic, this multitude of activities has only been made possible
due to dedication from our scientists in the discovery and development of novel vaccines. The recent validation of our vaccine
technology through partnerships with Janssen and Bristol-Myers
Squibb will only help to keep our scientists busy in the continued
discovery of new vaccines.

Paul Chaplin
President & CEO

5

CSR REPORT 2015

BUILT ON SCIENCE, DRIVEN BY PEOPLE
Our employees are our most valuable asset and as an innovative,
knowledge-based company, it is important for us to attract and
retain highly qualified workers. For this reason, we want to offer
our staff a good and inspiring working environment that also
provides them with development opportunities.
At Bavarian Nordic, we strive to maintain a good work-life balance, and we focus on employee health, safety and job satisfaction. We systematically map both the physical and psychosocial
working environment so that the necessary preventive steps
can be taken, for the benefit of both individual employees and
the Company as a whole. We do so in a close dialogue between
management and employees through a number of established
committees, including a works council and a health and safety
committee.
The aims of our general health and safety policy are	

•	to regularly train and educate our safety employee representatives, so they are updated on the relevant topics and
legislation.
•	to secure well-functioning and well informed workers and
safety committees on all relevant sites.
•	to promote awareness of health- and safety-related behavior in all employees as part of their day-to-day work and to
produce proactive solutions to potential problems.
•	to gradually develop a safety management system to support
this proactive safety work.
Being a global organization, we support a diverse, accommodating and non-discriminatory working environment where,
regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, physical impairment, religion
or sexual orientation, we all aspire to the same objectives. Likewise, we share the same corporate values: Excellence, Agility and
Dedication that have become an important foundation of how
we work to achieve both our corporate as well as individual goals

2015 DEVELOPMENTS
Maintained absence rate below our targets
The absence rate was 3.9% in 2015 (2014: 3.1%) and thus we met
our target to maintain the rate below 4%. Although we note that
absence rates among other companies (see figure 1) continue to
decline, we maintain our target of 4%. Due to the strict regulations that apply to our production which help to ensure our product safety, we do not allow our production employees to return
to work before they have recovered fully after illness, and hence
we expect a higher absence rate than that of other companies.
Occupational accidents still below industry averages
In 2015, the occupational accident frequency rate was 8.2 accidents per million working hours compared to 1.4 in 2014. A total
of 6 occupational accidents were reported, all of which were
minor injuries resulting in limited absence from work (average
absence of 2.7 days compared to 3.0 in 2014 per accident).
While we remain committed to a high level of safety throughout the organization, the recent expansion of our manufacturing facility - which has increased the number of workers in our
production - has resulted in more preventative measures as well
as more complex procedures, thus requiring additional training of
both new and skilled employees. We furthermore believe that an
increased focus on our working environment, in particular over
the last year, has led to a higher and more reliable reporting of
accidents than previously. The improved reporting not only helps
to address actual accidents, but also helps to define additional
preventative measures based on reporting of near-misses and
observations.

While the accident frequency rate remains below industry averages, we maintain a high focus on a safe and healthy working
environment in order to identify all relevant measures that help
to prevent future accidents.
Higher employee turnover due to reorganization
The employee turnover rate was 21.6% (2014: 13.8%), which is
higher than we would normally expect. This was mainly due to
consolidation of our research activities, which led to a reduction
of staff in California.
Gender diversity at management levels
We maintained an equal distribution of men and women in managerial positions with 51% and 49% respectively. Managers and
executives are selected exclusively on the basis of their qualifications and not on gender. This ensures that we can provide equal
opportunities if candidates for the positions have the required
professional background.
Increased focus on psychosocial working environment
In addition to the physical working environment, we have
increased our attention on the psychosocial working environment in 2015. As a small organization, we must be adaptable to
changes and opportunities, and therefore it is important that we
prepare our employees for managing through changes in order
to strengthen their job satisfaction and improve their general
wellbeing. Specifically, we have conducted training of our works
committee and our health and safety committee, offering them
tools for managing change and stress for both themselves and

6

CSR REPORT 2015

their colleagues. In addition, voluntary meetings for all employees have been held in Kvistgaard, focusing on changes in a
positive perspective.
Training of safety representatives
The employee representatives and the employer representatives
in the safety organization are offered training regularly in topics
related to risk prevention and risk management. In 2015, the
safety organization received training in handling of incidents in
addition to the supplementary mandatory occupational health
training that included machinery, specific risks, changes, and
work planning. Furthermore, priority was given to members of
the safety organization for participation in basic fire training.

Employee development and training
We continued our focus on training and education and on upgrading our employee’s qualifications. Some of our production
operators have received in-house training from other departments as part of the transition to multi-product manufacturing.
Some have been trained for work in cross-organizational projects,
and others have completed external training as plant operators.
These initiatives help to increase quality of work as well as job
satisfaction, thereby retaining good employees. Furthermore,
we initiated training for teams with a specific focus on their tasks
(e.g. working on the roof, working with hazardous chemicals).

2016 GOALS AND ACTIVITIES
In 2016, we plan to conduct workplace assessments focusing on
the physical and psychosocial working environment at our Kvistgaard site, as required by Danish law. In continuation of these
assessments, the general wellbeing among all employees will be
evaluated globally based on a survey. This extra survey will assist
us in detecting any areas that could be improved and helps us
decide what concrete measures should be made in the future to
ensure our employees job satisfaction.
Leadership training
The leadership training which was planned for managers in Germany and Denmark in 2015 has been postponed to 2016.
Occupational accidents
In 2016, we aim to reduce the number of accidents compared to
2015, to register at least 20 near-misses and/or observations, and
to analyze all accidents and at least 75% of the near-misses and
observations.
Absence
We will work to maintain the annual absence rate due to illness
below 4%. New procedures and tools as well as increased reporting to managers aims to ensure a more proactive approach for
working with absence among employees.
Gender diversity at management levels
We will work to maintain an equal gender distribution among the
managers of the Group.

Sickness absence
Absence rates
5
4
3
2
1
0

  Bavarian Nordic 
  All companies
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Comparison with DI (Confederation of Danish Industry) statistics for
sickness absence (all companies).

Occupational accidents
Frequency
20
15
10
5
0

  Bavarian Nordic 
  All companies
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Number of accidents per million working hours compared with DI
(Confederation of Danish Industry) statistics for work-related accidents
(all occupational groups).

7

CSR REPORT 2015

CARING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
Our primary impact on the environment and climate is derived
from our production, and we endeavor to reduce our environmental and climate impact by improving our manufacturing
efficiency and processes in order to optimize energy consumption
and to minimize emissions and waste. Our vaccine production
facilities and procedures are designed so that viruses do not
escape into the indoor or outdoor environment through the air or
in our wastewater.

systematization in our organization, driven by our environment,
health and safety specialist who proactively works to ensure that
we comply with our own guidelines as well as environmental
protection regulations and relevant requirements as defined
by the authorities. In general, we consider informal visits by
the authority as a benefit for information sharing and joint risk
perception as we may become aware of issues that we did not
consider before. We furthermore encourage environmentally
aware behavior throughout the Company as a whole.

We wish to be at the forefront of environmental work and we
seek to be so by maintaining a high degree of compliance and

2015 DEVELOPMENTS
Compared to 2014, we increased our production activities in 2015,
mainly as result of the production of MVA-BN Filo (Ebola vaccine),
where we produced and delivered bulk vaccine corresponding to
more than 2 million doses to our partner Janssen. In addition, we
produced vaccines for multiple clinical trials as well as continued
our preparations for commercial manufacturing of PROSTVAC.
Lower overall climate impact despite increased activities
Despite increased manufacturing activities, our total CO2 emissions were 12% lower compared to 2014, and our relative climate
impact from production dropped by impressive 24% as result of
further optimizations as well as better utilization of resources.
Energy
We basically met our relative energy consumption target (KWh
per m2) at our Kvistgaard facility in 2015. As planned, we conducted a complete energy screening of the site during the year,
which helped to identify additional energy-saving initiatives
which will be further assesses during 2016.
Reduced consumption and discharge of water
We further reduced the water consumption in the production by
more than 2%. This was a result of the energy monitoring system
that was installed at our Kvistgaard facility a few years ago,
which allows us to identify inappropriate consumption of energy
and water.
1: GHG Protocol, http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq, “Scope 3:
Other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased
materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related activities (e.g. T&D losses) not
covered in Scope 2, outsourced activities, waste disposal, etc.”

Minimized environmental impact from raw materials
We have continued to optimize the consumption of raw materials and additives in the production, again reducing the relative
consumption on largely all parameters, including chemicals,
compared to 2014.
Increased efforts to reduce indirect emissions
While our carbon footprint calculation does not include other
indirect emissions as defined in scope 3 by the GHG Protocol1,
we have increased our focus on outgoing transportation of
goods. This has resulted in increasingly choosing transportation
with couriers through consolidated distribution hubs instead of
dedicated cars, when allowed by security requirements. This
aims to reduce our indirect climate impact and we will continue
to evaluate opportunities to make further reductions.
Waste
The amount of waste was higher than compared to 2014, which
is largely attributed to higher manufacturing activity. While we
did not meet our target to increase the relative share of waste
for recycling, we have continued to identify areas of improvement throughout 2015. Specifically, we have worked to identify
additional waste fractions that would allow us to increase recycling through proper disposal of separated waste.

8

CSR REPORT 2015

2016 GOALS AND ACTIVITIES
Energy
Based on the energy screening in 2015, we expect to prioritize
the initiatives that were identified, and possibly implement the
first projects during 2016 to support our goal of maintaining our
annual relative energy consumption (KWh per m2) at the Kvistgaard facility below our target.

Chemicals
While we have not set specific targets for reduction of the relative consumption of chemicals used in our production, we continue to optimize our processes, thereby seeking to improve our
production economy. A part of these efforts is to avoid any unnecessary use of chemicals and additives. We thereby also seek
to minimize the amount of waste requiring special treatment.

Waste
We will continue our work to increase recycling of waste from our
production. Specifically, we have entered into an agreement with
a new waste carrier, able to handle the additional waste fractions
which we identified through 2015.

PRODUCT SAFETY
Product safety is crucial in our business, and quality and responsibility are important elements of our corporate culture. Vaccine
development is a highly regulated area, in which a strong regulatory regime of inspections and approvals sets a high standard for
all areas of our disciplines.
We work according to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), which
are rules laid down by the European and U.S. health authorities.
GMP includes strict requirements with respect to a product’s

traceability, quality and purity, which means that quality management is built into each step of the manufacturing process.
To-date, we have produced and delivered more than 30 million
vaccine doses. Even though largely all these vaccines have been
stockpiled for emergency use and thus not have benefited end
users yet, we and our partners have conducted various clinical trials of our product candidates in more than 10,000 people,
demonstrating that our vaccine platform technology has a favorable safety profile.

SUPPLIERS
In accordance with both GMP and our own supplier management system, we perform a risk assessment of all new suppliers
of critical materials and equipment used in our production and
laboratories. Suppliers whose products are considered to have a
material impact on our products’ quality and safety, will undergo
an initial audit, followed by an evaluation every third year as a
minimum, either by way of a visit or a questionnaire, depending on the situation. The structured audit process helps us to
gauge the quality and CSR mindset of our suppliers. Through

this close collaboration with our key suppliers, we are gaining a
deep insight into their business processes and capabilities, which
provides important learnings for optimizing our own processes.
Our suppliers of raw materials are mainly located in North
America and the EU, which are areas with a high level of regulation of social and environmental parameters in place.

9

CSR REPORT 2015

BUSINESS ETHICS
Bavarian Nordic prioritizes business ethics as a natural part of its
underlying business concept. We want to be seen as credible
and reliable by all our stakeholders.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“the Code”) describes
the ethical requirements for all employees’ and the Board of Directors’ behavior in relation to customers, employees, shareholders, society, suppliers and partners. The Code includes the rules
and regulations in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and
the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) that are relevant in connec-

tion with the Company's business transactions and negotiations
in the United States.
All employees have received training in the Code, and new
employees will receive training as part of their introductory program. Thus the observation of the Code rests upon all employees
and all employees are encouraged to report issues, concerns and
any breach of the Code. For this purpose, the Company has established a whistleblower system (“Ethics Hotline”).

HUMAN RIGHTS
As outlined in our general CSR policy, we support and respect human rights. Our compliance in this area is widely covered by our
health and safety policies as well as observance of the national
labor laws in the countries in which we operate. While the scope
of these efforts is mainly directed towards our own employees,
we seek to conduct our business with third parties in compliance
with the principles as well. As part of our procurement policies,

we perform regular audits of our suppliers, whom we encourage
to act responsibly in all matters relating to CSR, including observing international human rights. Also, we conduct our clinical trials
in a manner that recognizes the importance of protecting the
safety of and respecting the research participants. We do this by
applying the highest legal, ethical and scientific standards, in addition to complying with applicable laws and regulations.

2015 DEVELOPMENTS
As planned, we undertook a screening in 2015 to assess how our
business may impact human rights. We used a Human Rights Impact Assessment Tool to assess our level of compliance with the
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
(UNGP), in particular focusing on the UNGP guidelines for a policy
commitment, a due diligence process, and processes to enable
the remediation of adverse impacts caused directly or indirectly
by the Company.

2016 GOALS AND ACTIVITIES
In 2016 we will further evaluate the assessment results, in
particular focusing on potential adverse impacts, in order to
determine if additional actions are required.

The result of this initial screening indicates no actual adverse
impacts and only few potential adverse impacts on human
rights. The potential adverse impacts are primarily related to lack
of knowledge or lack of documentation or formalized processes.
There already seems policy commitment and processes to a
certain degree within the three pillars mentioned above.

10

CSR REPORT 2015

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
ON KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

TO THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
OF BAVARIAN NORDIC A/S

ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal
and regulatory requirements.

We have reviewed Bavarian Nordic A/S’ 2015 CSR report (“the
report”) to provide limited assurance that the key performance
indicators in Tables 1-5 have been prepared in accordance with
the reporting practice described.

We have complied with the independence and other ethical
requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
issued by FSR - Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants), which are based on the fundamental principles
of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care,
confidentiality and professional behaviour.

The report covers Bavarian Nordic’s international activities from 1
January to 31 December 2015.
Management’s responsibility
The Management of Bavarian Nordic is responsible for collecting,
analysing, aggregating and presenting the information in the
report, ensuring that data are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
Bavarian Nordic’s reporting practice contains Management’s
defined reporting scope for each data type. The criteria for the
reporting practice can be found on page 11-14 in the report.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion
based on our engagement with Management and in accordance
with the agreed scope of work.
We have conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
Financial Information and additional requirements under Danish
audit regulation to obtain limited assurance as to whether the
data are free from material misstatement.
Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab is subject to
International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, including
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with

Copenhagen, 7 March 2016
Deloitte
Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab
Central Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56

Martin Faarborg 			
State Authorised Public Accountant	

Helena Barton
Lead Reviewer

A limited assurance engagement is substantially lighter in scope
than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both of
the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of
internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the
assessed risks. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in
a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the
assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a
reasonable assurance engagement.
Considering the risk of material error, we planned and performed
our work to obtain all information and explanations necessary
to support our conclusion. We performed our on-site reviews
at Bavarian Nordic’s Head Office in Kvistgaard in February 2016.
Our work has included interviews with key functions in Bavarian
Nordic, inquiries regarding procedures and methods to ensure
that data and information have been presented in accordance
with the reporting practice. We have assessed processes, tools,
systems and controls for gathering, consolidating and aggregating data, performed analytical review procedures, and tested
data prepared for consistency with underlying documentation.
Conclusion
Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that
causes us to believe that the key performance indicators in Tables 1-5 in the CSR report for 2015 are not prepared in accordance
with the reporting practice described.

11

CSR REPORT 2015

STATEMENT ON SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
EMPLOYEES
Reporting practice
Unless otherwise stated, the presented figures cover all Bavarian
Nordic sites and employees.
Absence
Absence data includes recorded staff sick days and child sick
days for employees in Denmark and Germany only. Absence is
generally not recorded in U.S. companies and thus our offices in
Redwood City, CA and Washington DC do not contribute to the
statistics. Leave – also parental leave – is not included in these
figures. The absence rate was calculated by dividing the total
number of days of absence by the product of the average number of full-time employees for the year and the number of work
days in the calendar year.

Employee turnover rate
Employee turnover rate is calculated as the number of employees
that left their jobs divided by the average number of employees
over the course of the year.
Occupational accidents
Occupational accident data relates to accidents resulting in at
least one day of absence, in addition to the day of injury. Absence rates for 2011-2012 presented in the non-financial key figures on page 3 were based on accidents resulting in at least one
day of absence inclusive of the day of injury. The accident rate
is the number of occupational accidents per one million working
hours; vacation days are not included.

Table 1					
2015	
2014
Employees, total (year-end)					
426	
437
Employees, FTE average over the year					
420	
421
Distribution:				
Denmark					
260	
239
Germany					
113	
109
USA					
46	
72
Other					1	1
		
Absence					
3.9%	
3.1%
Employee turnover					
21.6%	
13.8%
		
Employee groups		
Ratio of men to women in management and executive positions				
51% / 49%	
47% / 53%
Employees under collective agreement					
65	
52
Other employees (white-collar workers with or without management responsibility)			
361	
385
Occupational accidents		
Occupational accident frequency (number/million working hours)				
Occupational accidents in numbers					
Average absence per occupational accident in days					

8.2	
6	
2.7	

1.4
1
3.0

12

CSR REPORT 2015

STATEMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE – GLOBAL
CARBON FOOTPRINT
Reporting practice
Carbon footprint calculations are based on the standards and
recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative1 for
calculating an organization’s total carbon emissions. This includes
the six greenhouse gasses addressed by the Kyoto Protocol –
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF6 – calculated in metric tons of
CO2 equivalents. Emissions sources are divided into three scopes:
direct emissions from activities under the Company’s control
(Scope 1), emissions from the consumption of electrical power
(Scope 2) and indirect emissions from products and services
(Scope 3). Our reporting covers Scope 1 and Scope 2, thus fulfilling the minimum recommendations.
We have calculated the total carbon emissions from the following of our locations:
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

 vistgaard, Denmark (headquarters, production, laboratories)
K
Hoersholm, Denmark (leased laboratory facilities - included
in 2013)
Martinsried, Germany (offices and laboratories)
Mountain View, California, USA (offices and laboratories)
Redwood City, California, USA (offices – included in 2015).

In 2015, our employees in California relocated from Mountain
View to Redwood City due to reorganization and transfer of our
cancer research activities to Europe. Thus we no longer have
laboratory facilities in California.

Our calculations include the following four different types of
emissions:
Natural gas and oil
This figure is based primarily on current consumption as measured by monthly meter readings. Greenhouse gas emissions from
the combustion of fossil fuels are calculated on the basis of an
average emission factor.
Fugitive emissions
Fugitive emissions include CO2 from the use of dry ice and CO2
gas plus emissions of greenhouse gasses from cooling and refrigeration systems. This figure is calculated on the basis of receipts
from purchase of said items.
Electricity
Electrical power consumption is based on meter readings recorded at the end of the year. The calculation of greenhouse gas
emissions from electrical power consumption is based on specific
emission factors provided by the power company and an average
local emission factor for generation of power.
Mileage (in km)
This figure is calculated on the basis of receipts from gasoline
companies and includes motor vehicles owned or leased by the
Company. Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis
of an average fuel-specific emission factor for ordinary cars in
Denmark and Germany.

Table 2					2015	2013
Units in t CO2		
Carbon footprint, global					

3,103	

3,543

Direct emissions (Scope 1)		
Heating					
935	
981
Power generation					0	0
Fugitive emissions					
19	
88
Transport of employees (motor vehicles)					
65	
46
Transport of raw materials (internal)					
1	
1
Indirect emissions (Scope 2)		
Electrical power, purchased					
1,983	
2,280
Heating, purchased					
101	
147
Cooling, purchased					0	0
		
Carbon footprint, Production					
2,178	
2,417
Carbon footprint, Production, index per batch produced					
65	
85

1: www.ghgprotocol.org

13

CSR REPORT 2015

Emission factors
In calculating CO2 emissions, specific emission factors based on
emissions type and geographic location were used. CO2 emissions from the combustion of natural gas, oil, gasoline, diesel
fuel and liquefied pressurized gas and from fugitive emissions
were deemed to have a general global effect with minor local
differences. Emission factors from these sources are based on
data provided by the Danish Energy Agency.

based on factors for Denmark as a whole. Emission calculations for electrical power at Mountain View and Redwood City
are based on emission factors provided by The Pacific Gas and
Electric Company. Emission calculations for electrical power
purchased in Germany are based on general German emission
factors ; emission calculations for district heating purchased in
Germany are based on emission factors published by local district
heating companies.

However, natural gas emission factors for Mountain View and
Redwood City are based on figures from The Pacific Gas and
Electric Company , a provider of natural gas and electricity in
California.

Indexed CO2 emissions per batch produced.
CO2 emissions per manufactured batch are indexed to 2009 and
calculated on the basis of the number of batches manufactured
during the calendar year.

Emissions for locally purchased electricity were determined on
the basis of local conditions. Emission factors for Kvistgaard are

14

CSR REPORT 2015

STATEMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE – PRODUCTION
WATER AND WASTEWATER
Reporting practice
Water consumption is calculated for the entire Kvistgaard facility,
including laboratories and administrative functions. An analysis
of wastewater is made once a year. The figures in Table 3 for
phosphorous, nitrogen, carbon and chlorides are based on these
measurements. However, due to an assumed error in the measurement of chloride in 2015, the amount disposed of has been
estimated based on the purchased amount of sodium chloride.
Process wastewater is heat-inactivated, cooled and pH adjusted
before being discharged into the public sewer system. Inactivation is a procedure that ensures that all virus remnants are rendered 100% harmless, and the system is checked for operational
problems before discharge. This treatment ensures that the
discharged wastewater complies with the requirements in the
Company's permit to use the municipal sewer system.

Table 3	

2015	2014

Sanitary wastewater (m3)	
3,637	3,735
Process wastewater (m3)	
7,660	7,856
Total wastewater (m3)	
11,298	11,591
		
Phosphorus (kg)	
13	
25
Nitrogen (kg)	
127	
191
Total organic carbon (kg)	
613	
602
Chlorides (kg)	
8,970	
8,642

WASTE
Reporting practice
Waste volumes are calculated for the entire Kvistgaard facility
and are based on annual statements from approved waste carriers handling ordinary and hazardous waste.
Waste consists primarily of disposable process equipment and
egg waste. Disposable process equipment includes production
bags, tubing and other disposable equipment. The bags are autoclaved and sent to incineration; the egg waste is also sent to
incineration. Hazardous waste includes organic solvents, acids,
bases, hazardous clinical waste, etc.

Table 4	

2015	2014

Total waste (metric tons)	
145	
117
- of which hazardous waste
(metric tons)	
16	
13
		
Breakdown of waste disposed of:		
Incineration	
79%	78%
Recycling	
9%	11%
Special treatment	
11%	
11%

INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION LEGISLATION
Reporting practice
Violations of terms are reported for the entire Kvistgaard facility.
They are discussed with the relevant authorities in order to assess the need for potential corrective actions.
In August 2015, a measuring of chloride in the wastewater was
in excess of the permit value. The measured value is believed
to be inaccurate, either due to it being a peak-value or a failed
analysis. A new measuring did not reveal violations of the terms
and as the chloride levels initially measured were significantly
higher than could be justified from the purchased amount of

Table 5	
Violations of terms, etc.
and accidental discharge	
Complaints	

2015	2014

0	
1
0	0

sodium chloride, the reported value has been adjusted. See Table
3 for additional information

