FRONT
RUNNER
GABRIEL

CSR
Report
2014/15
Gabriel Holding A/S

• EU ECOLABEL RENEWED
• CRADLE TO CRADLE EXPANSION
• A RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN
• CSR – A CONTINUED FOCUS


1

CSR Report 2014/15

CONTENTS
05 Management Report

14 Environmental labelling	

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) cuts quite naturally across all the Group’s activities.
To Gabriel, CSR means taking responsibility for adding value and thus contributing, directly
and indirectly, to positive development in society.

Twenty-nine products have been updated to comply with the updated and stricter EU Ecolabel criteria. Two new
Cradle to Cradle Certified bronze products have been launched.
TM

Content	
	04 Company information
	05	 Management Report
06	 Mission and policies
07	 Code of Conduct
08	 From raw material to finished product
10	 Materials and resources
	12	 Responsible production
14	 Environmental labelling
17	 Development and innovation
	18 	 Working at Gabriel
20	 Consolidated data
20	 Notes
22	 Auditor’s certificate

12 Responsible production

18 Working at Gabriel

Gabriel has been focusing on developing its supplier relationship management
via the ”Strategic Cooperation in the Supply Chain” project.

Gabriel aims to be an attractive employer for all and fulfils its social responsibility in the
local community. Gabriel actively promotes good health, and all companies in the Group
offer their employees various initiatives to enhance their health and fitness.

For the sake of the environment, this CSR Report is only available online.

2



3

CSR Report 2014/15

Management Report

Company information

Headquarters:		
			
			
			
			
			
			
			

Gabriel Holding A/S
Hjulmagervej 55
9000 Aalborg, Denmark
VAT no. 58 86 87 28
Phone: +45 9630 3100
Fax.: +45 9813 2544
E-mail: mail@gabriel.dk
www.gabriel.dk

Sector:			

Textiles and furniture.

Core activities:		
			

Development, manufacture and distribution of upholstery fabrics, components,
upholstered surfaces and related products and services.

Organisation
and countries:		
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			

Gabriel Holding A/S (Denmark)
-Gabriel Ejendomme A/S (Denmark)
-ZenXit A/S (Denmark)
-Gabriel (Tianjin) International Trading Co. Ltd. (China)
-Gabriel North America Inc. (United States)
-Gabriel A/S (Denmark)
- Gabriel Innovation A/S (Denmark)
- Gabriel GmbH (Germany)
- Gabriel Sweden AB (Sweden)
- UAB FurnMaster (Lithuania)
- FurnMaster Sp. z o.o. (Poland)
- UAB Scandye (Lithuania) (49.2%-owned)

Financial year:		

01.10.2014 - 30.09.2015

Number of employees:	

258

External auditor: 		
			
			
			

Gabriel A/S is certified by DNV GL Business Assurance Danmark A/S.
Gabriel (Tianjin) International Trading Co. Ltd. is certified by DNV GL Business Assurance Danmark A/S.
UAB Scandye is certified by Bureau Veritas Lietuva.
This CSR Report is verified by DNV GL Business Assurance Danmark A/S.

NACE codes:		
			
			

13.92.10 – Manufacture of furnishing fabrics.
46.41.00 – Wholesale of textiles. 	
31.00.0 – Manufacture of furniture.

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) cuts quite naturally
across all the Group’s activities. To Gabriel, CSR means
taking responsibility for adding value and thus contributing,
directly and indirectly, to positive development in society. The
company therefore endorses the principles of the UN Global
Compact and pursues its corporate CSR and environmental
policies with determination. Gabriel is run as a responsible
company and this method of operation is a permanent point
on its strategic agenda. CSR is not a whim of fashion, but
a strategic driver on a par with product development and
sales, for example. Gabriel is exceptional in the responsibility
it takes for how products are produced, including in those
areas where the Group is not the owner.
We see Gabriel’s environmental work as a part of our
CSR commitment, and this report approaches CSR
from both perspectives. The purpose of the report
is to share information with the company’s stake
holders on Gabriel’s CSR and environmental work and commit
ourselves to continuous improvement by publishing goals,
activities and achieved results.
On 26 June 2015, Gabriel was awarded a new EU Ecolabel
certificate that confirms our compliance with the environmental label’s new and more stringent labelling standards.
The new certification still enables Gabriel to offer the world’s
largest collection of EU Ecolabelled upholstery fabrics – in all
colours and as many as 30 different designs. When it comes
to environmental responsibility, product quality and consumer safety, Gabriel has always been a front runner, and was
the first fabric manufacturer in the world to achieve the EU
Ecolabel in 2002. The certification has been a valuable seal
of approval. The EU Ecolabel has encouraged us to strive for
more, and to focus with determination on meeting the new
and even more stringent environmental standards which it
sets. Gabriel will continue to focus on assuring responsible
products through product certification.
Two new products, Repetto and Elevation, have been Cradle
to Cradle CertifiedTM Bronze – and our customers now have
even more choices open to them for Cradle to Cradle fabrics.
Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM is a multi-attribute certification programme that assesses products and materials for
human and environmental health and safety, design for future
life cycles and sustainable manufacturing. In total, 10 new
products were launched during the year, which meets the Group’s
target. All products are developed with specific attention to
invariables such as product features, design and logistics. Quality and environmental management have to be
documented.

This report was prepared for Gabriel Holding A/S and its subsidiaries, which will be referred to as Gabriel or the Gabriel Group
throughout the report. The CSR Report covers the requirements of §99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act of 2013.
Please refer to the Annual Report 2014/15, Gabriel Profile 2014/15 and www.gabriel.dk for further information about the Gabriel Group.
The CSR Report for financial year 2015/16 will be published in November 2016.

The Gabriel Group continues its growth and expansion across
the globe. In financial year 2014/15, Gabriel has established
an American operating company, Gabriel North America
Inc., in Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA. Furthermore the
operating company, Gabriel A/S, has formed a sales company,
Gabriel Sweden AB, in Stockholm, Sweden. Before the end of
2015, Gabriel will also open a new office in Paris dedicated to
the furniture industry and the architect community. Ongoing
work with Gabriel Management System makes CSR policies
and objectives known group-wide.
Delivering the right products and services at the right time
is not possible without a firm partnership with external partners – both customers and suppliers. We are maintaining our
strategy of “matching the growth of the largest companies
on the market.” We therefore target our efforts on existing and newly selected Key Accounts. Our CSR work grows
continuously and is increasingly being implemented in close
partnership with our main customers. Strong emphasis
is laid on assessing a product’s CSR and environmental
impacts, as we explore new business opportunities together. We focus continuously on the chemical content of our
products, and therefore on gaining new knowledge of
chemicals and technologies. Gabriel supports new focus
points. Years of environmental work have prepared it to
cope with new requirements. This makes it easy for the
customer to choose the best alternative.
Gabriel continues to focus on strengthening relations with
strategic suppliers to increase the transparency and flexibility of its supply chain. We know we need strong partners
if we want to make improvements. In financial year 2014/15,
strategic partners have made a number of technological
improvements which not only improve our environmental performance, but also have a significant impact
on our production capabilities, quality performance,
working environment and efficiency. In the coming years,
we will continue our open dialogue and strong common​
objectives along the supply chain.
The following pages describe the company’s objective,
specific policies for CSR and the environment, how our policies
are transformed into actions, what results we have achieved
in the past year and our ambitions for the coming year. A
detailed review of the Gabriel Group profile is available on
the company’s website, www.gabriel.dk, where the latest
financial statements can also be found.

Aalborg, 29 October 2015

Anders Hedegaard Petersen
CEO

4



Kurt Nedergaard
Business Manager Quality, Environment and Production

5

CSR Report 2014/15

Mission and policies
Mission
Innovation and value-adding partnerships are fundamental values of Gabriel’s mission statement. Gabriel is a niche company which, in the entire value chain from concept to furniture user, develops, manufactures and sells upholstery fabrics,
components, upholstered surfaces and related products and services. Gabriel develops its services for use in fields of
application where product features, design and logistics have to meet invariable requirements, and where quality and
environmental management must be documented.

Policies applicable to all Gabriel Group activities support
this mission. They include our collaborative approach to
the value chain.
Policies
Gabriel endorses the principles embodied in the UN Global
Compact and focuses on the following areas:
∙∙ To develop and manufacture its products and services with
user health and safety in mind; and minimise environmental
impact and respect animal welfare throughout the production process.
∙∙ To ensure a good working environment which complies
with country-specific laws and Gabriel’s own requirements
throughout the supply chain. These requirements comprise detailed technical specifications and the content of
Gabriel’s Code of Conduct.
∙∙ To treat continuous skills and job development for all
employees as a high priority.
∙∙ To support students by providing internships and participating in research projects which benefit both the students and
the company.
∙∙ To communicate its CSR activities openly and foster the spread
of CSR as a company-wide managerial activity.
∙∙ To maintain its position as First Mover within our industry; consolidating its lead in implementing new initiatives to improve
the environment.
∙∙ To take account of all phases of the product life cycle and
prioritise environmental initiatives in those areas where its
influence and impact are strongest.
∙∙ To encourage sustainable consumption and user
health by using product labels: Gabriel works with
recognisable labelling schemes with a high level of consumer
trust, primarily the EU Ecolabel and the Oeko-Tex health label.
∙∙ To advise customers and users on significant environmental
impacts related to the production, use, recycling or disposal
of the company’s products. Company employees in customer
contact roles must be able to provide correct information
on the Group’s objectives and policies. This information is
available at the company website.
∙∙ To select its suppliers for their ability to fulfil environmental
requirements and willingness to enter into an open and detailed
partnership to achieve optimum outcomes. Partners on the

6

supply chain must regularly introduce cleaner technology and
environmental improvements, with due heed to the technical
and financial implications.
∙∙ To apply the internationally recognised standards ISO 9001 on
Quality Management Systems and ISO 14001 on Environmental Management Systems, and follow the principles of OHSAS
18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management and ISO
50001 Energy Management.
∙∙ To conduct an open and detailed dialogue with the
authorities on CSR and environmental requirements, and
oppose unlawful acts and irregularities.
∙∙ And annually to renew its environmental objectives and
action plans to ensure ongoing reductions of the most significant impacts and create continuous improvements;
integrating objects into the internal business plans
described in the CSR Report, and make them known to all
employees. The CSR Report shows results and completed
objectives. It is updated annually and published with the annual
financial statements.

Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct is a set of guidelines on business ethics which help our employees to maintain
ethical behaviour and respect human rights. The Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact
and is in accordance with the recommendations of the industry organisation, Dansk Fashion & Textile.

Human rights

Animals

Principle 1:	Businesses should support and respect
the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and
Principle 2:	ensure that they are not complicit in
human rights abuses.

Principle 11:	

Labour standards
Principle 3:	Businesses should uphold the freedom
of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4:	the elimination of all forms of forced
and compulsory labour;
Principle 5:	
the effective abolition of child labour; and
Principle 6:	the elimination of discrimination in
respect of employment and occupation.
Environment
Principle 7:	Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental
challenges;
Principle 8:	undertake initiatives to promote greater
environmental responsibility; and
Principle 9:	encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies.

In businesses where animals are
used in ­labour and/or in the production (fur, wool etc.), such animals
must be fed and treated with dignity
and respect, and no animal must
deliberately be harmed or exposed
to pain in its life. Taking the lives of
animals must at all times be conducted using the quickest, and least
painful and non-traumatic method
available (not in the vision of other
animals), approved by national and
acknowledged veterinarians and only
conducted by trained personnel.

Charity
Principle 12:	Businesses are encouraged to work and
seek to be involved in local or global
charity work for the improvement of
social and living conditions.
Monitoring and evaluation
Principle 13:	All businesses involved must at all times
be open and accessible to announced
and unannounced audits for monitoring and evaluation of compliance with
the Code of Conduct.

Anti-corruption
Principle 10:	Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion
and bribery.



7

CSR Report 2014/15

From raw material to finished product:
processes and activities

From material to end-product
From material to finished product
WOOL

Gabriel is a niche company which, in the entire value chain
from concept to furniture user, develops, manufactures and
sells upholstery fabrics, components, upholstered surfaces
and related products and services. Gabriel is organised in a
number of independent strategic business units with their
own visions, objectives, strategies and budgets.
The objective and the policies set the framework for Gabriel’s
CSR work, including how Gabriel works with selected partners. Gabriel has an influence on the entire chain, from raw
materials to finished upholstered product, and we therefore have a shared responsibility at all stages, both locally
and globally. There is a focus on the complete life cycles of
services, to maximise benefits from the efforts made. This
ensures that a step in the life cycle is not optimised without
noting how it affects performance in the following steps. It
also ensures that effort is prioritised where the benefit will
be greatest.
We see Gabriel’s environmental work as a part of our
CSR commitment. Significant environmental impacts
are determined from systematic surveys, including
measurements of input (raw materials, water, chemicals
and energy), measurements of output (wastewater, waste
and emissions) and ongoing follow-up with strategic suppliers on their environmental programmes. Gabriel also
continuously monitors the analyses and reports of institutes,
authorities and other bodies which are thoroughly familiar with
environmental issues, in order to identify relevant concerns.
Regarding CSR more broadly, Gabriel prioritises the areas
highlighted in our Code of Conduct.
The following are regarded as the most important environmental impacts in the product life cycle:
∙∙ Raw materials – New Zealand wool.
∙∙ Raw materials – polyester fibres.
∙∙ Raw materials – other products used in upholstery, e.g. foam,
metal and plastic.
∙∙ Energy consumption and potential impacts on climate change.

∙∙ Water consumption, especially in washing, dyeing and
finishing treatment.
∙∙ Consumption of chemicals.
∙∙ Production waste.
∙∙ Wastewater.
∙∙ Transport of raw materials and finished goods.
∙∙ Disposal, including recycling, of the products.

POLYESTER

Raw material
production

- Farming
- Shearing
- Scouring

- Extracting crude oil
- Refining crude oil

Raw material
processing

- Material dyeing
- Carding
- Spinning
- Yarn dyeing
- Twisting

- Petrochemical processing
- Granulate
- Melting granulate
- Spinning fibres

These matters relate primarily to suppliers’ production and
customers’ activities. In these matters, we cooperate closely
with suppliers and customers. It is therefore essential that
Gabriel has a good relationship with these partners to ensure
communication of requirements and goals.

WEAVING/KNITTING

Environmental impacts related directly to Gabriel’s activities and properties:
∙∙ Consumption of energy, water and other resources.
∙∙ Noise from operations.
∙∙ Generation of waste.
∙∙ Transport for customer and supplier visits and other meetings.
∙∙ Making decisions which affect product life cycle performance.

Textile production

DYEING
Wet processing, dyeing,
finishing treatment

High-priority areas
Gabriel’s efforts are described under five main headings which
form the basis for implementing CSR and environmental objectives and policies. These five priority areas were chosen
against the following criteria:

DISPATCH

∙∙ Impacts prioritised by Gabriel’s CSR and environmental
policies and impacts considered important by customers.
∙∙ Impacts which are important in the eyes of the law.
∙∙ Impacts which are considered important in product labelling,
including EU Ecolabel, Oeko-Tex and Cradle to Cradle.
∙∙ Impacts which Gabriel can influence for the better.
∙∙ The relative importance of the impact.

MAKING UP
Cutting, sewing, upholstering

The five main areas

USE

Materials and resources
• Responsible production and supply chain management
• Environmental labelling and management systems
• Development and innovation
• Working at Gabriel
•

Disposal

These areas are discussed in greater depth on the following pages. For each area, we describe how our policies are
transformed into actions, what results we have achieved in the past year and our ambitions for the coming year.

Recycle

Reprocess

New use

8



9

CSR Report 2014/15

Materials and resources

Materials and resources: objectives and results
Objectives 2014/15

Using the best materials and eliminating problematic
chemical content is a key priority for Gabriel when designing
and producing high-quality products.
Wool
Gabriel has a long-term partnership with Wools of New
Zealand, which guarantees high-quality raw materials and
good ­conditions for the sheep. This type of wool possesses
unique dyeing properties where the dye is absorbed into the
fibre. The material also absorbs light, which results in very
attractive colours with plenty of depth and no reflections.
Wool maintains its attractive appearance in use, assuring
a long service life for the end-product. Gabriel uses only
high-quality raw wool, thus avoiding many chemical finishing treatments.
Polyester
Polyester has come to comprise a significant part of Gabriel’s
product range in recent years. Polyester is the world’s most
used fibre, and has properties which make it suitable for furniture fabric. Polyester can also be recycled in other fabrics
and products after use. As an example, Gabriel offers the
products Elevation and Repetto, which ­consist of 100% recycled polyester. Work is ongoing to discover ways of increasing
the proportion of fabrics based on recycled material. Gabriel
works only with suppliers who can deliver high-quality polyester yarns which meet Gabriel’s environmental requirements.

as ordinary non-toxic waste or recycled in new products after
use. Gabriel has financial as well as environmental reasons
for trying to avoid waste throughout the supply chain. Waste
fabric which cannot be used commercially is used for charity
in the local communities.

Gabriel Group: increase the
proportion of sea transport
from China to a minimum of 94%.

Control of chemicals

Results 2014/15

Objectives 2015/16

Result for 2014 is 93.6%, and result for 2015 (as of 30.09.2015) is
99.0%.

Maintain share of sea transport
from China at a minimum of 98.5%.

Gabriel Group: continue involvement in projects focused on recirculation and circular economy.

Gabriel is part of a Ph.D. project
which focuses on new requirements regarding furniture
take-back schemes and related
business models. Key stakeholders have been interviewed, and
analyses are ongoing. Immediate
results indicate that stakeholders
are interested, but different obstacles are also identified.

Conduct Circular Economy workshop with selected stakeholders to
further strengthen cooperation and
prioritise further actions.

Gabriel Group: intensified monitoring of global environmental
legislation together with industry
organisation, for the purpose of
continuously increasing Gabriel’s
knowledge of industry-specific
legislation.

Procedures for monitoring and
evaluating environmental legislation have been updated. Gabriel
constantly receives intelligence
through Dansk Fashion and Textile
(DM&T).

The objective has been achieved.

‘

Chemicals are required in the production processes, and
Gabriel controls the choice and use of dyes and chemicals
in our suppliers’­production. The following are examples of
what is not used:
∙∙ Chlorine compounds
∙∙ Organic solvents
∙∙ Dyes containing heavy metals
∙∙ Dyes and pigments which can give off carcinogens
∙∙ PVC
∙∙ Flame retardants containing bromine
∙∙ Silver ions or other bactericidal treatments
∙∙ Anti-moth impregnation
∙∙ Other substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or
allergenic.
These requirements are largely governed by the Gabriel
General Requirements, which contain lists of phrases
concerning­ undesired risks and chemicals, and minimum
requirements for fabric performance.

Gabriel Group: update internal
minimum requirements document
(Gabriel General Requirements)
and include furniture components.

	

Energy, water and climate change
Furniture upholstery and upholstery solutions
Gabriel’s expansion within the activities of FurnMaster business unit is increasing Gabriel’s responsibility for buying materials to be used for the assembly of furniture parts. Raw
materials are selected in close dialogue with customers, and
Gabriel advises as far as possible on the selection of components and suppliers who meet Gabriel’s environmental,
quality and CSR requirements.
Recycling
When designing for recyclability, it is a priority not to mix
different types of material. Due to Gabriel’s life cycle approach, we work continuously on how to recycle resources
for use in other products or applications after use, with
a particular focus on preserving the high value of the resources. This means that the components can be handled

10

Gabriel is monitoring significant energy and water consumption on its own premises, and sets reduction targets when
potential is identified. As an example, the share of transport
by sea is monitored, both to reduce emission of CO2 and
thereby climate change, but also to ensure the most costeffective transport.
Energy and water are essential for suppliers’ production
processes. Gabriel monitors performance of key suppliers
through sharing of targets and progress. The two suppliers
accountable for the largest share of Gabriel products have
switched to 100% renewable energy. The energy is provided
at the same cost, but with significantly reduced CO2-emission
and climate change impacts.



Gabriel Group: participate in
Danish chemical management
initiative focusing on substitution,
REACH and supply chain cooperation. Input findings to Gabriel management system.

Project is finalised. Gabriel has
shared knowledge on chemical
management at suppliers.

The objective has been achieved.

FurnMaster: obtain FSC certification of wood products.

There have not yet been any customer requests related to FSCcertified products.

The feasibility of an FSC certification is evaluated continuously, and
initiated when relevant.

ZenXit: carry out a life cycle analysis to document environmental
impacts of ZenXit.

Analysis is completed. Main finding
is that recycling is a priority when
further improving environmental
performance of ZenXit.

The objective has been achieved.

11

CSR Report 2014/15

Responsible production ­
and supply chain management

Responsible production and supplier management: objectives and results
Objectives 2014/15

Gabriel only collaborates with suppliers who are capable of
meeting the requirements applicable to products and services, and works actively to select the best possible partners.
Throughout the supply chain, efforts are made to achieve
responsible and sustainable results. It is important for Gabriel
to take responsibility, not only for financial earnings, but also
for environmental sustainability and social justice. Gabriel
has this in mind at all times and seeks to create synergy
between these perspectives.
A responsible supply chain network
During 2013-15, Gabriel has focused on the development
of supplier relationship management via the Strategic Cooperation in the Supply Chain project. The project includes
increased cooperation with and across key suppliers, since
all links in the chain are responsible for delivering services
and products which meet the CSR, environmental and quality
objectives. This is a key element in creating a strong and
transparent supply chain network. No objectives regarding
this project were included in the 2013/14 CSR Report. There
are therefore no such objectives in this years’ overview, though
the project did generate a number of improvements which
are presented below.
Strategic partners must meet high demands. The term “strategic partner” covers those companies in the supply chain
which are most important to Gabriel. The requirements cover
all areas in the value chain. The efficiency and value of the
relationship is now measured by categorising it and creating
a risk profile, in which the value-adding processes are evaluated across parties in Gabriel. These processes includes the
suppliers’ capabilities within design and product development,
logistics, quality, production, the environment, CSR aspects
like respecting human rights, the working environment as
well as willingness and ability to improve.

In relation to CSR, Gabriel specifically follows up partners’
compliance with the Code of Conduct. Gabriel is continuously
striving to establish a supply chain which provides a good and
responsible working environment. Therefore Gabriel places
a high priority on choosing partners who provide proper conditions, comply with Gabriel’s Code of Conduct and actively
and continuously strive to improve conditions.

Results 2014/15

Gabriel Group: include CSR performance data related to strategic
partners in the CSR Report.

‘

At the start of a partnership with a new supplier, the supplier is introduced to, and must sign, the Code of Conduct.
Gabriel seeks to understand operating practices in the new
countries it might enter, but also uses its influence to have
the supplier implement management systems, for instance.
Potential risks are evaluated, and actions to manage these in
ongoing operations are defined and monitored through followup audits and ongoing communication. For example, a team
of Gabriel employees conducted a thorough on-site review
of a new Chinese supplier in autumn 2014, together with a
Chinese audit team from a recognised company. All relevant
operational controls in the facility were checked, and a social
compliance audit was completed before deciding whether to
continue engagement with the supplier. The social compliance audit included check of non-discrimination, minimum
wage and social benefits.

All available CSR data regarding strategic partners have been
assessed for Gabriel fabrics suppliers, and CSR objectives are
constantly added to internal supply
chain management tool.

Objectives 2015/16
The CSR Report sets and communicates relevant indicators regarding CSR performance of strategic
partners for the entire Gabriel
Group.

Gabriel Group: update materiality
assessment regarding human
rights, anti-corruption, climate
and environment, as well as social
aspects in the value chain. Plan to
act on findings in policies, plans,
tools and procedures.
Gabriel Asia Pacific and FurnMaster
units: complete CSR training for
relevant employees and implement
related tools.
UAB FurnMaster: complete
environmental mapping as basis
for prioritising future projects,
set up system for tracking main
resource consumption, identify and
prioritise projects to reduce waste
and increase reuse.

Managing the supply chain
Gabriel’s team in Aalborg are in daily dialogue with European
partners, while Gabriel Asia Pacific engages with partners in
that region. The development of systems and requirements,
as well as approval of new suppliers, takes place in close
dialogue. FurnMaster offers unique services in furniture upholstery and upholstery solutions and is part of the Group’s
quality management system. Relevant employees receive
training in CSR, both to understand what Gabriel requires
and to be able to explain the Gabriel values and expectations to suppliers.

FurnMaster Sp. z.o.o.: complete
environmental mapping as basis
for prioritising future projects,
set up system for tracking main
resource consumption, identify and
prioritise projects to reduce waste.

The evaluations are shared with strategic partners, as this
paves the way for mutual understanding of expectations
between companies, and joint development plans can be
prepared for the partnerships. Strong and long-term partnerships also help to ensure that Gabriel’s requirements
are communicated to subcontractors on the supply chain.
Continuous follow-up is a high-priority area, and Gabriel
requires manufacturers to comply with all local regulations
and Gabriel’s own requirements.

12



13

CSR Report 2014/15

Management systems: ISO 9001, ISO 14001
ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 are both standards for quality and environmental management. A company can
choose to become certified to these standards. Both standards are based on the principle of making continuous improvements by implementing a fixed cycle: evaluate the current situation; set goals and formulate
policies; implement the required actions; and, finally, measure the result. Based on the result, an assessment is made of whether actions and goal are adequate, or whether to make improvements and set new
goals. ISO 9001 focuses on parameters of significance for a company’s quality performance, while ISO 14001
concerns the matters of significance for the company’s environmental ­performance. An important tool in
this is the audit, which assesses whether the systems are functioning as planned.

Environmental labelling and management systems
Quality and environmental management systems

Product labelling helps to ensure an objective basis for
proving that the communication about our products is accurate. The labelling schemes mean that the product ranges
are subject to a number of different requirements and external tests and approvals which are the customer’s guarantee
of product performance. This applies to both internationally
recognised product standards, such as those concerning
wearability and fire-retardant qualities, and environmental
impacts. Gabriel’s requirement is that an environmentally
labelled product must meet all customer needs as well as,
or better than, a product without the label.

www.iso.org

Gabriel is certified under ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and the
management system also include elements from OHSAS
18001 (working environment), ISO 50001 (energy) and ISO
49001 (Corporate Social Responsibility). The management
system ensures systematic control of all parameters in
product development and production, together with ongoing
performance improvements. Gabriel’s quality and environmental management system is designed in accordance with
the standards and is based on the company’s core processes.
To support core processes, the system covers the company’s
management processes and support processes for all business units. The processes are documented in the system and
continuously updated.

Gabriel uses internationally recognised product labels and
certifications. The EU Ecolabel, Oeko-Tex, Cradle to Cradle
and the Nordic Ecolabel (the Swan) are selected as they are
widely known and recognised. Gabriel strives to be at the
forefront of the industry in using new labels with potential.
In 2002, Gabriel was the first upholstery fabric manufacturer
in the world to gain the EU Ecolabel on a large part of its
range. In 2010, it became the first Danish company to gain
Cradle to Cradle product certification. Gabriel is also at the
forefront in 2014/15, when 30 products have been updated
to comply with the updated and stricter EU Ecolabel criteria,
and two new products, which are Cradle to Cradle Certified
bronze, have been launched.

Oeko-Tex
Oeko-Tex is the world’s leading health label for textiles. The label certifies that the item was tested and approved according to the requirements set by the international Oeko-Tex Association. These requirements
concern the content of chemicals which are – or are suspected of being – physically harmful. The label
goes further than the law. The requirements are divided into four classes, depending on the textile’s use
(how close to the body they are). The substances in question ­include, for example: formaldehyde, chemical
­residues with an acidic or basic action, pesticides, phenols, heavy metals, s­ pecial dyes and phthalates.
www.oeko-tex.com

Cradle to Cradle
Cradle to Cradle (C2C) concerns the way we view our resources (extraction, use, disposal) and works to create a closed cycle with either technical or biological nutrients. The concept was formulated by the German
Michael Braungart and the American William McDonough in 2002, but ideas underlying the concept are now
shared in various circles.

In the financial year 2014/15, Gabriel has decided to end its
registration under the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme
(EMAS). The scheme was useful when handling production
operations in Aalborg but, with the ongoing globalisation of
Gabriel, is no longer adequate. Furthermore, we have experienced a drop in the number of EMAS-registered companies,
and our customers are not requiring EMAS specifically. EMAS
and ISO14001 are very similar, and we are still committed to
openly sharing our results and objectives with stakeholders.

TM

A C2C certification assesses the product on five counts: renewable energy; water consumption; material
health properties; social responsibility; and recycling. The result is certification at one of five l­evels. The
scheme is administered by The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute.
www.epea.com

www.c2ccertified.org

www.mbdc.com

EU Ecolabel

The EU Ecolabel is a consumer guarantee that the product
is environmentally friendly, high-quality and fairly priced
- and it serves as an efficient tool for consumers in their
effort to make sustainable choices. The environmental label
guarantees sustainability and consumer safety throughout
the product’s life cycle – from extraction of raw materials to
production, use, and disposal.

DS/16/20

The EU Ecolabel (the Flower) is the European Union’s environment label. The label covers environmental
issues­throughout the product’s life cycle with a focus on energy, water and chemicals, and accords a high
priority to ­reducing the most significant environmental impacts of a given product. For textiles, this means
focusing on the quantity of pesticide residues in the raw material, the scouring of the raw wool, the use and
emissions of ­hazardous ­chemicals in production, and the quantity of toxic substances and heavy metals in
the finished product.
The EU Ecolabel also sets requirements concerning the product’s quality, so that the product with the
­environmental label is at least as good as the non-labelled alternative.
www.ec.europa.eu/environment/ecolabel/

Gabriel’s
process
outline
Gabriel’s
quality
and environmental management system

Gabriel: Ten-year guarantee

Management processes

Core processes

Operating companies

14

Strategy
process

Mission

Vision

Strategy

Policies

Organisation &
responsibility

Management
review

Resource
optimisation

Communication

Product innovation

A and B
customers

Key Account Management
– from potential to
regular customer relations

– from concept
to product ready for sale

All
customers

Logistics

Price competitiveness
lowest cost

– from customer order
to product supplied

Europe
Gabriel A/S

United States
Gabriel North America Inc.

Gabriel provides a ten-year guarantee against wear-through on all furniture fabrics in the price list under
normal office or home use, normal maintenance and appropriate upholstering. The label was designed by
Gabriel.
Investor
relations

Gabriel also has a comprehensive spot removal guide which can also be used to keep the fabric clean and
­attractive in the event of an accident.

A customers

Gabriel: No heavy metals
The label was developed by Gabriel back in the 1980s to signal to customers that Gabriel can offer ranges of
dyes which are free of heavy metals. Gabriel was the first Danish textile manufacturer to introduce this, and
no heavy metals are now used in our dyes.

Suppliers

Since then, the environmental labels have appeared, and they also govern the limit values for heavy metals.
The label is also still used as a symbol of our tradition of taking the lead in the sector.

Gabriel Asia Pacific
Gabriel (Tianjin) International
Trading Co. Ltd.



15

CSR Report 2014/15

Development and innovation
Innovation and value-adding partnerships are the
foundation of Gabriel’s mission, and this is also reflected in the way we work with CSR. Gabriel wants to
be the development partner of choice for customers,
so that customers see it as natural to turn to Gabriel
for advice on new ­challenges. Gabriel is able to solve
environmental tasks throughout the product’s life cycle,
through close cooperation with partners. Knowledgesharing in the supply chain is an important strength. Gabriel
also wants to inspire customers to follow new pathways by
offering new solutions which can benefit their business.
­Gabriel’s policies are determined on the basis that Gabriel
wants to be a leader in the area and wants the policies to go
further than the limits required by law. This protects ­Gabriel’s
products against more stringent requirements under the
law, because the company is already at the forefront when
new requirements are made mandatory.
There is a close working relationship between the Masters in
Gabriel for new product development. Gabriel’s QEP-Master
(Quality, Environment and Production) is involved at an early
stage in the development, ensuring that requirements and new

possibilities are elucidated and integrated into the product
development processes. In the product development process,
high priority is also given to Cradle to Cradle and r­ecycling
of ­materials as important drivers of development.
Gabriel has long-standing partnerships with various knowledge partners. Dansk Fashion & Textile, Network for Sustainable Business Development in Northern Denmark,
EPEA Hamburg and Aalborg University are some of the more
important partners. On more than one occasion, Gabriel’s
active participation in networks has enabled it to influence
on the future agenda and legislation, e.g. during the recent
revision of the EU Ecolabel. Gabriel is also a member of the
CSR committee of the industry organisation Dansk Fashion
& Textile, for the promotion of CSR in the industry.
In recent years, QEP-Master has used its expertise to guide
­external partners. This helps to develop the work on quality
and the environment for these partners while also extending
QEP-­Master’s area of business.

Environmental labelling and management systems: objectives and results
Objectives 2014/15

­

Gabriel Group: new fabric products
will carry either the EU Ecolabel or
Oeko-Tex label, and Gabriel will go
on examining new labelling schemes
to support sales on its more recent
markets.

Nine new fabric products have been
launched. One new product gained
certification under the EU Ecolabel.
Eight new products gained certification under Oeko-Tex. No new labelling
schemes were found relevant.

Gabriel Group: initiate any necessary
changes to Gabriel’s existing products
after adoption of the new EU Ecolabel criteria.

The criteria were adopted in June 2014,
and have resulted in stricter chemical
demands, stricter demands regarding production units and new CSR
requirements. All 30 affected products
have been reviewed and all necessary
changes to meet the new requirements
are completed.

Gabriel Group: at least three more
Masters obtain at certification at the
end of the 2014/15 financial year.
Conduct training within the individual Masters in management systems
and processes as part of the roll-out
of the individual certification.

16

Results 2014/15

One Master obtained certification.
Additionally, three more Masters are
upcoming, but will not be completed
before the finalising of this report.
Training is ongoing as Masters work on
their processes.

Objectives 2015/16

­

­

Development and innovation: objectives and results

New fabric products will carry either
the EU Ecolabel or Oeko-Tex label,
and Gabriel will go on examining new
labelling schemes to support sales
on Gabriel’s more recent markets.

Objectives 2014/15

The goal has been achieved.

Results 2014/15

QEP-Master: new possibilities
and partners are considered.
Participation in external networks
as a mean to create new contacts
and partnerships is constantly
investigated.

Resources have been focused on
new companies in the Gabriel Group.
However, QEP-Master is involved with
one new external customer regarding
energy management.

Gabriel Group: partnership with
Aalborg University (AAU) regarding
circular economy and ZenXit.

Both projects are in their last
phases, and the lessons learned
are informing new projects at
Gabriel.

Objectives 2015/16

­

Engage in external networks to
ensure a pipeline of active projects.

Partnership with AAU on the project
Sustainable Production 3.0, where
circular business models for ZenXit
and furniture are the main focus.
Gabriel Group: evaluate and update
CSR strategy together with main
stakeholders to reflect the ongoing
development of the Gabriel Group.
Make plan for implementing findings in policies, plans, tools and
procedures.

Obtain ISO9001 certification of the
business units UAB FurnMaster and
FurnMaster Sp. z.o.o.
Update core processes related to
product development and price
competitiveness.

Gabriel A/S: complete CSR-training
for relevant employees.

Continue with individual certification
and training of Masters.



17

CSR Report 2014/15

Global player

Working at Gabriel
As an international company, Gabriel must be able to
attract and retain employees with the right skills and
knowledge for the continued creation of innovation and
growth. Gabriel gives priority to everyone using, developing and sharing knowledge and skills. All employees are
familiarised with Gabriel’s vision, strategy, targets and
activity plans and are regularly updated on their work ­situation
as part of employee development dialogues and employee
meetings. This ensures that all employees work towards
clear goals and with clear areas of responsibility, and that
their professional and personal development is stimulated.
Job satisfaction is a continuous focus for Gabriel, and all
Masters have prioritised initiatives for the purpose of maintaining and improving job satisfaction.
Gabriel aims to be an attractive employer for all and fulfils its
social responsibility in the local community. Gabriel is active
in health promotion, and all companies in the Group offer
their employees different types of health promotion initiatives.
In addition, each company in the Group have implemented
specific employee benefits, which match conditions in the
country where they are operating.

Gabriel Europe
Head office
Aalborg, Denmark
As an example, Gabriel A/S (Denmark) offers flex jobs, training places and trial jobs, and there is an annual subsidy
for sports activities. Another example is Gabriel Asia Pacific,
which offers, for example, family property i­nsurance and an
annual health check.

Sales offices
Bingen, Germany
Stockholm, Sweden
Paris, France
Gabriel North America
Sales office
Grand Rapids, Michigan

Gabriel buildings and facilities
Gabriel occupies a number of locations throughout the world.
The head office is situated at the spot where it all started
in 1851. In 2014/2015, Gabriel has established an American
operating company, Gabriel North America Inc., in Grand
Rapids, Michigan, USA. Furthermore, the operating company
Gabriel A/S has established a sales company, Gabriel Sweden
AB in Stockholm, Sweden. Before the end of 2015 Gabriel
will also open a new office in Paris dedicated to the furniture
industry and the architect community.

Lithuania
Sweden
Denmark
Germany Poland
France

USA

China

Gabriel Asia Pacific
Sales office
Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou
Distribution centres
USA, Lithuania and China
FurnMaster production
Lithuania and Poland

New locations are chosen based on a number of parameters;
e.g. possibility of strengthening new or existing markets,
accessibility for Key Accounts, availability of competent staff,
the neighbourhood, and making sure the building is as sustainable as possible.

SampleMaster production
Lithuania

Working at Gabriel: objectives and results
Objectives 2014/15

Results 2014/15

Objectives 2015/16

­

Gabriel A/S: hold all mandatory
employee appraisal and half-yearly
follow-up interviews.

All mandatory interviews were
held.

Gabriel Group: hold all mandatory
employee appraisal interviews.

Gabriel A/S: register and analyse
absences due to illness and initiate
actions based on the results.

Registration of absences due to
illness was initiated. Short-term
absence is 2.0%.

Gabriel Group: all units register
absence due to illness, and set
up relevant action plans based on
performance.

Gabriel A/S: update the workplace
assessment.

The assessment is updated,
responsibility and deadlines assigned. The assessment is part of
the ongoing work of the working
environment council at Gabriel.

The objective is achieved.

Gabriel A/S and FurnMaster units:
prepare action plan for OHSAS
18001 certification. Complete work
environment mapping and have
system certification initiated.
18



19

CSR Report 2014/15

Consolidated data

Notes: measuring and basis of calulations

The statement covers the period 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015.

	

Accounting policies

2014/15	2013/14	2012/13	2011/12	2010/11

Information in the report is based on data from ongoing internal and external readings and reports under the environmental
management system. The environmental report includes absolute quantities, key figures and qualitative descriptions. Only
significant impacts are included. Data covering UAB FurnMaster and FurnMaster Sp. z o.o. will be included in the CSR Report
2015/16 when data collection and validation systems are implemented.

ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AALBORG, DENMARK
District heating (m3)	10,832	13,333	23,192	23,205	31,655
Electricity (MWh)	
500	555	548	532	435
Share of renewable electricity (%)	
47	35	24	26
Calculated CO2 emission (heat and electricity) (tons)	
191	262	258	287	311	
Waste water (m3)	
1268	1178	1053	1029	 860
Industrial waste (tons)	
Cardboard for recycling (tons)	
Metal for recycling (tons)	
Plastic for recycling	

Key indicators
The reporting of key indicators is based on an assessment of the most significant impacts. Indicators listed by the Sustainability Reporting Guideline (G4) by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) have been reviewed as a source. Resource consumption
data related to production operations are presented relative to the amounts produced.

16.9	28.5	15.3	14.5	16.4
3.9	2.2	 2	4.3	5.1
2.0	14.1
0	0.5	 0	1.2	 0

Energy

ENVIRONMENTAL DATA, SCANDYE LT		
Natural gas (m3/kg)	
Electricity (MWh/kg)	
Calculated CO2 emission (tons/kg)(electricity and gas)	
Water consumption (l/kg)	

0.90	0.92	1.02	1.08	1.03
1.35	1.37	1.50	1.52	1.44
2.02	2.08	2.46	2.59	2.47
136	131	143	140	158

The calculation of CO2 emissions for Aalborg is based on the environmental declaration from Aalborg District Heating. The
production of one kWh average current in Denmark consisted in 2014 of 30% coal, 7% natural gas, 47% wind, water and solar
energy, 13% waste, biomass and biogas, 0% oil and 3% nuclear power (www.energinet.dk).

783	792	758	727	947
906	798	670	531	346
1.8	

The Danish Gas Technology Centre’s emission calculations for big boilers are used to calculate CO2-emissions for natural
gas consumption in Lithuania.

UAB Scandye (Lithuania) is supplied with 100% renewable electricity, originating from hydro power.

CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS
Wool goods (tons)	
Polyester goods (tons)	
Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials*	

Emissions of SO2, NOx and CH4 are not included, as the quantities emitted are deemed insignificant.

TRANSPORT
Proportion of transport by sea (%)	
99.0	93.6	98.5	99.1	75.4
		

Wastewater

PRODUCT LABELLING

Proportion Oeko-Tex (%)	
Proportion EU Ecolabel (%)	
Proportion Cradle to Cradle Certified (%)*	

Wastewater amounts equal the purchased quantity of public drinking water for all units.
90	
71	80
45	
43	40
5				

Consumption of raw materials
The stated consumption of raw materials includes production waste, which is approximately 5%. Commodities are also included. The numbers are based on statements from Gabriel ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) systems. Only the share of
recycled material input is included, as wool is a renewable resource.

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (FABRICS) *
Percentage of new suppliers (category A and B) that were 	
screened using environmental and social criteria (%)
Percentage of existing suppliers (category A) which are 	
certified according to ISO14001 or equivalent, or have
defined objectives and action plans related to
environment and CSR (%)	

100%	
100%

Transport
The transport breakdown into sea and air for goods produced in China is calculated on the basis of invoices for carriage
according to calendar year. The breakdown is calculated on the basis of the consignments’ total weight in kg. The number
represents year-to-date performance related to the calendar year 2015 (as of 30.09.2015).

* The indicator is introduced for the first time in the CSR Report 2014/15, and therefore no historic data are presented.

Product labelling
The proportion of labelled products is calculated by counting the total number of products in Gabriel’s standard range as of
30.09.2015 relative to the total number of products labelled with either the EU Ecolabel, Oeko-Tex or Cradle to Cradle. Calculation principles have been changed to better reflect the standard range of products. Therefore the score is significantly
improved for this reporting period.
Supply Chain Management
The number is based on records from the Supplier Management System, which is updated on a quarterly basis or as
suppliers provide updated information.

20



21

CSR Report 2014/15

The independent auditor's report

To the stakeholders of Gabriel Holding A/S
We have carried out a systematic review of registrations, calculations and balances in
Gabriel Holding A/S's CSR Report for the 2014/15 financial year, which was prepared in
accordance with the statutory rules on green accounting and section 99a of the Financial
Statements Act as well as the measuring methods and calculation basis described.
The management of Gabriel Holding A/S is responsible for Gabriel Holding A/S’s CSR
Report. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the CSR report on the basis of our
review.

Object and scope of the review
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted principles and standards.
The review was organised and conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion with
limited assurance.
On the basis of an assessment of environmental significance and risk, we reviewed
Gabriel Holding A/S's documentation and data reported for the company. The review
also includes an assessment of Gabriel Holding A/S's system for data collection and
Gabriel Holding A/S's own checks and quality assurance of data, including our opinion on
the accounting policies and an assessment of the overall presentation of the CSR Report.
In the review special emphasis is placed on the data sources and aspects of the data
gathering procedure which are assessed to be subject to a major/higher risk of errors,
taking into account the risk management methods applied to minimise the degree of
uncertainty.
The review was conducted by examining documentation and data, assessing measuring
methods and calculation models, and, where possible, comparing the data with the
financial statements. Interviews were performed with management representatives and
employees during the review.
We believe that the review which was carried out is appropriate to provide a basis for
our statement.

Statement
In our review no aspects came to our attention which challenges the credibility of
Gabriel Holding A/S's CSR Report. No aspects has been brought to our attention
which challenges the compliance of Gabriel Holding A/S's CSR Report with the
statutory rules for green accounting or Section 99a of the Financial Statements Act, or
with the analysis and measuring methods described by Gabriel Holding A/S.

__________________
Tommy Lund
Lead Auditor

_______________________
Annette Kromann
Resource Manager

DNV GL, Tuborg Parkvej 8, 2900 Hellerup, Denmark. Tel: +45 39 45 48 00. www.dnvgl.com

22



23

Gabriel A/S
Holding A/S
Hjulmagervej 55
DK-9000 Aalborg
Phone: +45 9630 3100
www.gabriel.dk

24

