Statutory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) for 2015, cf. art. 99a of the Danish Financial
Statements Act
Genmab A/S
CVR no. 2102 3884

Innovating antibodies,
improving lives

Statutory report on CSR for the financial year 2015 cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements
Act (“Lovpligtig redegørelse for samfundsansvar, jf. årsregnskabslovens § 99 a”). This report is part of
the Directors’ Report in the Genmab A/S Annual Report covering the period 1 January – 31 December
2015.

Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility
Being socially responsible is at the core of how we do business at Genmab and is reflected in Genmab’s
core values. We believe that a company has a responsibility to conduct itself in a way that benefits not
only the company’s main stakeholders, in our case patients, shareholders and employees, but also
society as a whole.
At Genmab we seek to create new medicines to help patients, with a specific focus on cancer. When
carrying out our business we strive to comply with all relevant laws, standards and guidelines. At the
same time, we consider the well-being of our employees a top priority, and we take actions to minimize
our impact on the environment to the extent possible. We have high ethical standards and aim to
conduct business with companies and within countries that share our ethics. We do not conduct
business in high-risk countries where human rights are not upheld. Since we have a limited number of
employees and must therefore carefully allocate our resources, we have chosen not to implement a
specific human rights policy. However, Genmab supports and respects the protection of internationally
proclaimed human rights through other policies that address responsible supply chain management,
ethical procedures, health and safety procedures and issues regarding access to medicine. In addition,
Genmab only conducts clinical trials in markets where a drug is planned to become available.
Our CSR Committee is comprised of representatives from our human resources, investor relations &
communications, legal, finance and research & development functions. The committee ensures that
Genmab carries out its CSR activities effectively and communicates clearly and openly about them.
Our business-driven CSR strategy focuses on four main areas:
» Employee well-being including health, safety and development
» Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and clinical studies
» Environment, including waste management and recycling
» Business ethics and transparency
Genmab’s CSR report discloses the main highlights of our CSR initiatives but does not reflect all of our
ongoing initiatives and procedures. As part of our commitment to CSR we monitor new developments
and practices and have a process via which we consider implementing new initiatives that could further
enhance our CSR activities.

Our Core Purpose and Vision
Genmab’s commitment to CSR is anchored in our company’s core purpose “to improve the lives of
patients by creating and developing innovative antibody products” and our vision “By 2025 our
own product has transformed cancer treatment and we have a pipeline of knock-your-socks-off
antibodies.”

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015

2/8

Our vision inspires and motivates us to find new ways to improve healthcare and quality of life for
patients and their families. The antibodies we create are specifically designed to provide new treatment
options to patients with life threatening and debilitating diseases.
Our efforts at addressing unmet medical needs have led to the creation and market launch of
DARZALEX™ (daratumumab) and Arzerra® (ofatumumab) and the development of other products.

CSR Focus: Employee well-being including health,
safety and development
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
At Genmab, our vision, core purpose, and core values guide and inspire employees in their everyday
work.
Core Values
Passion for innovation
Work as one team and respect each other
Determined – being the best at what we do
Integrity – we do the right thing
Genmab believes that an engaged and motivated workforce that is offered development opportunities
will produce better quality work. Our Performance Planning & Review cycle, which includes components
related to our core values, is designed to support employee motivation. Furthermore, Genmab invests in
the development of employee knowledge, skills and competencies as these areas are essential for the
company’s success. Genmab has established a leadership development program to enhance employee
engagement and various indicators have been implemented to measure employee satisfaction with their
working conditions and allow us to consider actions to optimize these if deemed necessary.
Genmab has numerous policies in place to ensure the well-being, health and safety of our employees.
Employee well-being is addressed by corporate policies on, for example, smoking and alcohol
consumption, different forms of leave, diversity and anti-discrimination as well as health insurance plans.
In addition, regular workplace audits are conducted at Genmab A/S and Genmab B.V. and employee
surveys are conducted across all locations.
Health and safety is addressed by policies to optimize the workplace, to manage workload and to deal
with work-related stress. Part of these policies focuses on safety in laboratories and handling of
dangerous substances. Management ensures that employees are trained to correctly handle hazardous
goods and chemicals.
Genmab’s culture is characterized by an inclusive, open and supportive professional work environment
across our international locations. We believe that fostering workplace diversity across social,
educational, cultural, national, age and gender lines is a prerequisite for the continued success of the
company. We are committed to diversity at all levels of the company and strive to recruit employees with
the right skills and competences, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, etc. Genmab’s Board of Directors
has set a goal to increase the proportion of female board members elected by the General Meeting to at
least 25% by 2016. This goal complies with targets specified under good corporate governance

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015

3/8

recommendations in Denmark. Our gender and diversity policies, as well as the target figure, may be
amended by the Board of Directors and should be interpreted in accordance with applicable equal rights
and anti-discrimination legislation in force in Denmark. The text in the Diversity section below fulfills the
requirements of Section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act.
2015 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
 In 2015, we established a project plan for
setting up a new compensation and benefits
policy based on global survey results to
ensure Genmab provides compensation in line
with industry standards.
 We launched an internal roadmap to identify
actions necessary to move the company
towards achieving the 2025 vision. The vision
roadmap formed the basis of an all day
workshop held for the entire company.
 During 2015, Genmab implemented
succession planning for the top management
level at the company.
 We developed and executed a customized
leadership program for senior leadership. A
Leadership Essentials program was
established for leaders at other levels of the
company and the first cohort of leaders has
successfully graduated from the program.

EMPLOYEE WELL BEING
 A global employee survey was conducted
across all Genmab locations in 2015. The
survey response rate was 86%, and the
results show that employees are highly
motivated, committed and satisfied.
 Genmab held an all-hands meeting to
strengthen teamwork, employee engagement
and motivation. Results of a survey conducted
after the event showed that 99% of employees
were satisfied or very satisfied with the event.
HR BENCHMARKS
 In 2015, employee turnover was 3%, the same
as in 2014. In addition, the seniority of our
employees was 7 years in both 2015 and
2014. The turnover and seniority reflect both
the current job market and Genmab’s aim to
attract and retain employees. A high level of
satisfaction was shown in an employee

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
















In 2016, we will establish governance for, and
conduct the compensation and benefits survey
and implement solutions based on the survey
results.
We will continue communication to employees
explaining progress made towards reaching
our 2025 vision.
Genmab will continue to manage succession
planning and invest in securing continuity in
the top levels of the company; the Leadership
Essentials program helps to develop the
pipeline of future Genmab leaders.
We will seek to brand Genmab as an
employer of choice and introduce and clarify
career pathways as part of our efforts to
maintain employee retention at an acceptable
level.
Additional leadership workshops will be
conducted for the senior leadership during
2016; under the continued Leadership
Essentials program, we will further train
leaders at other levels of the company.

An action plan will be developed to address
the results of the global employee survey. We
will continue our focus on employee health
and well-being and address issues as
appropriate.
Mandatory workplace audits will be conducted
every third year in The Netherlands and
Denmark, in compliance with local regulations.
The next workplace audit will take place in
2016.

Genmab will continue to focus on employee
satisfaction and engagement. We aim for an
appropriate level of employee turnover and an
absence rate in line with industry rates.

4/8

2015 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
engagement survey.
 Employee absence due to illness in 2015 was
2% compared to 3% in 2014. The employee
absence level is in line with the general
healthcare industry rates.
DIVERSITY1
 Genmab remains committed to providing
equal opportunities for women and men at all
management levels. While still insisting that all
positions must be filled by the best candidate,
our ambition is that all management levels
shall hold a diverse composition with highly
skilled and very experienced employees at all
levels of the organization. Women are well
represented in the Senior Vice President
group, at and above the director level, and
below director level. We meet our goal of
having at least 40% of both genders at
management levels. The current male/female
ratios are outlined below.
 The Board of Directors evaluates the diversity
of Genmab’s management levels at least once
a year to ensure diversity. During 2015,
Genmab worked towards our goal of
increasing the proportion of General Meeting
elected female board directors to at least 25%
by 2016. With the election of a new female
board member at the 2015 Annual General
Meeting, the proportion of female board
members was increased to 20%.

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES







Genmab will continue to focus on the gender
diversity of our workforce at all levels of the
company.
The Board will continue to work towards its
goal of increasing the proportion of General
Meeting elected female board directors to at
least 25% by 2016. The Board of Directors will
make efforts to ensure a balanced slate of
male and female candidates is considered
when board vacancies become available,
while at the same time ensuring that the most
qualified candidates are proposed.
Genmab B.V. will adhere to a new
governmental “Participation Law” by giving
priority to employing people with a handicap.

Male/Female Ratios

2015

2014

Male

Female

Male

Female

Genmab Group

44%

56%

46%

54%

Director level and above

54%

46%

56%

44%

Below director level

40%

60%

43%

57%

Other Key Employee Ratios

2015

2014

No.

186

173

Research and development employees

%

87%

88%

Administrative employees

%

13%

12%

Average age of workforce

No.

41 years

41 years

FTE at the end of the year

1

This Diversity section fulfills the requirements of Section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015

5/8

Number of nationalities

No.

12

14

Employees holding an advanced degree
(Ph.D., Doctoral or Master)

%

47%

48%

More than 5 years’ experience in pharma/biotech industry

%

90%

91%

Seniority

No.

7 years

7 years

2

%

3%

3%

3

%

2%

3%

Employee turnover

Employee absence

CSR Focus: Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and
clinical studies
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are governed by extensive and strict regulations which
are intended to provide quality assurance of pre-clinical and clinical studies and the processing of data
resulting from such studies. Genmab is subject to, and complies with, these international regulations,
guidelines, and standards for drug development, such as Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), Good Clinical
Practice (GCP), and current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP). Genmab also complies with all
relevant legislation and regulations, including guidelines issued by international regulatory authorities
such as the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
Please refer to the “Risk Management” section of the Annual Report for 2015 for more information.
Genmab is committed to being in compliance with all relevant regulations, laws, standards and
guidelines. Therefore, Genmab’s operations are audited by relevant local authorities and Genmab
conducts internal and external audits according to an approved audit schedule and approved standard
operating procedures.
In addition, we amend our policies and guidelines to stay in line with current regulations and business
trends.
2015 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
QUALITY ASSURANCE
 Genmab has conducted internal and external
audits according to an approved audit
schedule and approved standard operating
procedures. Vendors are audited using a risk
based approach.
 In 2015, a group led by the Regulatory Affairs
department was established to evaluate the
consequences of the EU Clinical Trial

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES



Genmab will continue to conduct internal and
external audits for quality assurance.
The EU Clinical Trial Regulation legislation
has been delayed. When the regulations
come into effect, the group led by Regulatory
Affairs will ensure readiness to meet the
requirements of the legislation.

2

Employee turnover percentage is calculated by the FTE voluntarily leaving since the beginning of the year divided by the average
FTE.
3
The rate of absence is measured as absence due to the employee’s own illness, pregnancy-related sick leave, and occupational
injuries and illnesses compared with a regional standard average of working days in the year, adjusted for holidays.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015

6/8

Regulation regarding reporting and
transparency for clinical trials.
VENDOR SELECTION
 We continue to consider the CSR policies of
potential vendors via standard operating
procedures in our vendor selection process.
Vendor CSR policies are taken into
consideration when more than one possible
vendor is available.



Genmab will continue to consider the CSR
policies of potential vendors as part of our
vendor selection process when possible.

CSR Focus: Environment including waste
management and recycling
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Genmab’s environmental policy outlines our commitment to protecting the environment as well as the
health and safety of our employees, collaboration and business partners and the public by conducting
business in a safe and environmentally sustainable manner. We encourage employees to act in an
environmentally friendly way, to produce as little waste as possible and to collect waste for recycling.
The management of laboratory waste at Genmab B.V. is audited annually and the waste license is
maintained in compliance with all rules and regulations. Employees working in the laboratories at
Genmab B.V. are instructed to replace highly toxic chemicals with less toxic versions where feasible.
Genmab contributes to energy-saving by using environmentally friendly climate control systems and
equipping all locations with energy saving LCD screens. We select office and laboratory equipment that
require low energy usage when possible. Genmab monitors the use of environmentally friendly power
sources employed by local power supply companies. Green energy is used when the pro-green
arguments can be balanced with the costs involved. Since 2012, Genmab A/S has purchased solely
green energy for the Copenhagen site.
We encourage employees to use public transportation to commute to work by partially reimbursing
incurred expenses at our European locations. Our global travel policy provides guidelines for limiting
unnecessary plane travel by employees and encourages the use of teleconferencing and
videoconferencing as an alternative to business trips.
Finally, Genmab uses recycled paper and recycling procedures have been established for old electronics
including laboratory and IT equipment. In addition, Genmab has implemented two-sided printing as
corporate standard and includes a “think-before-you-print” message in the standard e-mail signature.
2015 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
ENVIRONMENT
 Genmab continued to encourage employees
to act in an environmentally friendly manner,
to produce as little waste as possible and to
collect waste for recycling where practical.
 Genmab minimizes its environmental impact

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES


As our environmental impact is considered to
be limited, Genmab has decided not to include
any indicators for the environmental area at
this time. Genmab will continue to have focus
on reducing our environmental impact where

7/8



from laboratory operations by controlled waste
treatment of chemicals.
We are in the beginning stages of building a
new facility for Genmab B.V. and aim to
further reduce our environmental impact by
aiming for BREEAM certification for the
building.





possible.
Genmab will continue to minimize its
environmental impact from laboratory
operations by controlled waste treatment of
chemicals.
Genmab will continue to consider the
environmental impact of the new facility which
will be built for Genmab B.V.

CSR Focus: Business Ethics and Transparency
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Genmab’s reputation as a trusted partner is crucial to our shareholders and business partners and is
essential to the company's ability to conduct business. Genmab is committed to lawful and ethical
behavior in all activities, including financial and accounting matters, and we require our employees to
comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Genmab maintains a whistleblower program and
provided notification to the Danish Data Protection Agency and Dutch Data Protection Authority
regarding the processing of personal data relating to the whistleblower program. Furthermore, Genmab
continues to adhere to its code of business ethics, which promotes the lawful and ethical behavior of all
internal stakeholders when conducting business on behalf of Genmab.
Genmab has implemented and communicated global compliance guidelines for interactions with
healthcare professionals (HCP) and promotion of pharmaceuticals. Furthermore, Genmab has guidelines
for company communications regarding products in development.
2015 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
BUSINESS ETHICS
 No issues were reported under our code of
business ethics or whistleblower program.
 Genmab continues to monitor legislation and
regulations regarding interactions with HCPs
and updated the Company’s compliance
guidelines as appropriate. Mandatory training
in the compliance guidelines was conducted in
2015.
 Genmab offered refresher training on the
insider rules to employees in 2015.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES





Refresher training for the code of business
ethics will be conducted in 2016.
Genmab will continue to monitor legislation
and regulations regarding interactions with
HCPs and will update the Company’s
compliance guidelines and conduct training as
appropriate.
Refresher training for the insider rules to
employees will be conducted in 2016.
Genmab will consider establishing new
processes and procedures regarding insider
trading as new legislation coming into effect in
2016 may affect the insider rules.

8/8

