MANAGEMENT REVIEW

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
REPORTING ACCORDING TO SECTION
99A OF THE DANISH FINANCIAL
STATEMENT ACT
Greentech is highly aware of the Company’s role as a
player in society in a local, national and international
context. Therefore, Greentech remains attentive
towards making targeted efforts to ensure that its
core business area and activities are developed in a
financially, environmentally and socially responsible
manner by both complying with statutory requirements
and taking voluntary corporate responsibility initiatives
in the countries and communities in which Greentech
operates. Greentech believes that responsible business
behaviour is a precondition for long-term value creation
for the Company and its stakeholders.
The UN principles on human rights, labour rights,
environment and anticorruption form the guiding
framework on which Greentech’s corporate
responsibility efforts are based.
In its considerations relating to Corporate Responsibility
initiatives, Greentech seeks inspiration in the UN Global
Compact initiative for corporate social responsibility.

GREENTECH ENERGY SYSTEMS A/S

Climate and environment
Through the Company’s core business of producing
and selling renewable energy and environmental
activities of water and sludge treatment, Greentech
directly contributes to set a positive footprint in terms of
reducing the environmental and climate impact.
In line with Greentech’s business goal of enlarging the
operational portfolio, Greentech strives to generate

Gross production* (GWh)
Clean Power Supply
(Number of house-holds in 1 year)
Emission of CO2 avoided (tons)
Oil saved (Barrels)

and distribute clean energy production in order to
preserve the environment and to contribute to a world
sustainable growth.
During the past years, Greentech has provided an overall
increasing production of renewable energy providing
environmental advantages in terms of savings of fossil
fuels and reduction of CO2 emissions.

2015
415.5
138.514

2014
443.6
147.866

2013
465.7
155.235

2012
413.7
137.907

2011
327.3
109.092

220.237
567.255

220.237
605.556

235.107
605.556

246.823
635.733

173.456
446.764

* Excluding production from Wormlage and Tiefenthal wind plants.

In 2015, the production of Greentech’s gross installed capacity supplied 138,000 families
with non-polluting energy - an increase of more than 27% compared to 2011.
In 2015, Greentech’s clean energy gross production corresponded to a reduction of approx. 220,000 tons
CO2 - equalling the elimination of emissions from more than 90,000 cars.

ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 32

MANAGEMENT REVIEW

As Greentech offers an alternative to the dependency
on scarce and polluting power sources providing clean
energy without emissions of hazardous particles or
greenhouse gases, no special environmental risks are
related to Greentech’s activities.
The Company, however, stays extremely attentive towards
and is highly committed to assess the physical impact of its
activities. Greentech’s projects are subject to environmental
permits, and at all project stages Greentech is governed
by comprehensive environmental legislation and rules
which, through mandatory surveys and analyses, serve to
safeguard the surroundings of the Company’s plants, i.e.
flora and fauna, local residents and the landscape.
Greentech has no significant outstanding environmental
issues with authorities, nongovernmental organisations
or local residents related to the Company’s activities.
To the extent possible, Greentech also limits the
environmental impact of its business activities.
Greentech focuses on replanting of e.g. trees and shrubs
in corresponding areas if removal of such plants is
needed to complete the Company’s activities.
In order to consider also the environmental impact of the
Company’s administrative activities, Greentech has decided,
starting from 2014, not to present the annual report in a
printed and bound version, but only electronically.

GREENTECH ENERGY SYSTEMS A/S

People
Greentech considers diversity an important asset and
remains committed to ensuring equal opportunities
and rights for employees and therefore does not
tolerate discrimination or harassment based on
religion, race, ethnicity, gender, age, sexuality, political
opinion or other status.
Greentech has a diverse workforce with a broad
employee composition in terms of geographical and
cultural background, gender and age distribution (see
the paragraph “Organisation” for details on the
composition of the employees).
Moreover, a safe and healthy workplace continues to
be a priority for Greentech. Particularly in the
Company’s wind and solar plants, severe health and
safety procedures are implemented to secure the
employees and minimise the risk of occupational
accidents. Also in 2015, these provisions have
contributed to an injury- and incident-free working
environment.
As Greentech’s activities are often carried out
in geographical areas that have a high rate of
unemployment, Greentech also contributes to
ensuring growth in local communities through
employment of local workers, contractors and
suppliers.

Diversity in management - Reporting
according to section 99b of the Danish
Financial Statements Act.
Greentech also maintains focus on encouraging diversity
at managerial levels, an initiative which was introduced
in 2013 with the policy on equal representation in
management centred on gender distribution in the Board of
Directors. In line with section 139a of the Danish Companies
Act, the Board of Directors, thus, has implemented a
target figure for the 3proportion of women, who currently
constitute the underrepresented sex of the Board:
• It is the aim of the Board of Directors of Greentech
that 2 female board members be elected by the
General Meeting before the end of 2017.
Greentech is ambitious on the topic and has already
taken an important step towards its fulfilment with the
election of Mrs. Michèle Bellon as member of the Board
of Directors at the Annual General Meeting in April 2014.
Moreover, in 2015, Greentech continued evaluating
potential female candidates with specific qualifications
and competencies necessary for effective governance but
no suitable candidates could be found. Greentech will
continue its research in 2016, in order to meet the target
figure as planned. In 2015, no new member of the Board
of Directors was elected. Hence, Greentech’s Board of
Directors currently consists of 7 members - of which 6 are
male and 1 is female.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 33

MANAGEMENT REVIEW

Greentech makes targeted efforts to achieve the goal on
gender distribution within a shorter time
frame. The target may, however, be amended, and it is
always the primary criteria that the candidates
proposed for the Board of Directors are selected
considering their suitability based on professional
and personals skills and competences.
Additionally, the Company has adopted policies
regarding the proportion of gender in the other
management levels of the Company:
Greentech is still committed to working towards creating
and maintaining equal opportunities for women and
men at all management levels in the Company. In
connection with all recruitment, including recruitment
at management level, it is Greentech’s policy to fulfil
the Company’s requirements for employees with the
necessary skills and competences, regardless of gender,
age, ethnicity etc.
When choosing between equally qualified candidates,
the diversity among the employees shall be taken
into consideration. In connection with recruitment
for managerial positions it should be ensured, where
possible, that the candidates invited for interview include
both men and women.
At year-end 2015, the managerial positions below
top-management level in the Company were covered
by respectively 60% male managers (69% including
discontinued) and 40% female managers (31%
GREENTECH ENERGY SYSTEMS A/S

including discontinued), which can be considered as a
balanced proportion of gender.

Ethics and behaviour
Transparency and compliance with national and
international regulation and standards are considered
cornerstones in Greentech’s business behaviour, and the
Company is committed to undertake its activities
and perform its practices responsibly with due
consideration and respect of internal and external
procedures and guidelines.
A code of ethics has been introduced for the majority of the
Group companies which addresses relevant
issues and prescribes the correct behaviour in interactions
with the Company’s internal and external
stakeholders. In 2015, a system to increase awareness and
of empowerment among the employees regarding the
rules of conduct and business ethics was implemented.

Greentech has not prepared a specific policy on human
rights as, so far, the Company has not deemed it
relevant, considering its business activities and locations.
In the future, Greentech will continuously endeavour to
expand its corporate responsibility efforts by integrating
environmental and social aspects in its planning and
decision-making processes. These efforts will be based
on the topics most relevant with respect to Greentech’s
core business and commercial goals as this is the best
way in which Greentech can contribute through relevant
initiatives to the benefit of the Company and of its
stakeholders.
Energia Alternativa
Italy

Greentech operates in an international context, currently
in five different European countries (Denmark, Germany,
Italy, Poland and Spain) which all constitute fairly limited
risk factors in terms of businesses’ exposure to human
rights violations. Consequently, Greentech does not
conduct any activities, liaise
or contract with business partners or suppliers in
countries considered high-risk in terms of negatively
impacting human rights.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | 34

