CSR Report
2015

Contents
CSR in the Jyske Bank Group..................................................................3
Clients...............................................................................................4
Investments.......................................................................................6
Climate and environment.....................................................................8
Employees....................................................................................... 10
CSR initiatives in 2015 - an overview.................................................... 13
	

StorbyLandsbyen (CityVillage)........................................................................16

	

Sportscar Event ..............................................................................................18

	

Gartnerteamet (Gardening Team)..................................................................20

	MurMal............................................................................................................21
	

Cooperation with fødevareBanken (foodBank) ..............................................23

	
	

Participation in Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed
(People’s movement against loneliness)........................................................25

Initiatives 2016 ................................................................................ 27

CSR Report 2015
Page 2

CSR in the Jyske Bank Group
The Jyske Group is aware of the financial sector’s general importance to society, including importance in respect of financial stability, and in accordance with
legislation and business circumstances, the Group fulfils its role in this respect. In
all respects, The Jyske Bank Group strives to operate an honest, fair and responsible business in respect of the Group’s values and views as well as in a way that
upholds the balance between shareholders, clients and employees.
This statutory report constitutes part of the management’s review in the Annual
Report 2015 of Jyske Bank.
CSR policy
In 2015, Jyske Bank’s department for Group CSR focused on developing and gathering the Group’s CSR initiatives to ensure cohesion between the core business and the
work on corporate social responsibility at both Jyske Bank and BRFkredit. Together
with the management, Group CSR has the overall responsibility for developing policies and initiatives in the CSR area.
CSR externally
In the years 2016-2020, we will select CSR initiatives based on the following principles:
•	
•	
•	
•	

Our involvement must make a considerable difference to the project we chose
to get involved in.
We engage in CSR cooperation with our clients and stakeholders in areas
where we already operate professionally.
We will get involved in unorthodox cooperation schemes, be it with other enterprises, public authorities or players from civilian society.
We contribute the resources that we have available in the business and involve ourselves in a process that can contribute to improvement for individuals as well as local communities/society.

CSR internally
Internally in the Group, we wish to:
•	
•	
•	

promote diversity in the Jyske Bank Group to the extent it is relevant;
involve us in the employees’ professional development and day-to-day job
satisfaction;
involve employees in initiatives focusing on the business’ impact on the environment.

CSR Report 2015
Page 3

Clients
Advice to our clients is based on the legislation in force at any time, including the
rules on good advisory practices.
Being a bank and a mortgage credit institution, it is crucial for us to share responsibility with respect to our clients’ finances. We do this through clear guidelines
for our credit policy for both clients and guarantors and through advisory services
that ensure a good overview for the clients of their possibilities and risks. Also, we
take such responsibility by checking that our clients do not use the bank for criminal purposes, such as money laundering and tax evasion.
Special advisory services for young clients
Unfortunately some young people end up having a history of bad credit. The reason is that they have a poor understanding of their finances and act on impulse.
Therefore they run a higher risk of accumulating large debts too early in life. Jyske
Bank launched, therefore, in 2014 a new advisory concept especially targeting clients between 18 and 27 years of age. All branches have customized products and
special advisers for this target group. Moreover, Jyske Bank participates in various
programmes to teach young people to be in control of their own finances. In 2015,
the Bank introduced an app, Weekly, that can help uses to gain an overview of
their day-to-day finances.
Assistance for home finances
Team Bolighjælp (Team financial assistance for housing) at BRFkredit will offer assistance when clients have lost the overview of their financial situation and are in
arrears with their mortgage payments - for instance due to divorce or unemployment. The team makes great efforts in order to solve the problem in cooperation
with the families. For instance, they help them to regain an overview of their financial situation and to enter into individual agreements on debt repayment - also
with other creditors. Since 2015, Team Bolighjælp has been in contact with about
400 families, and it has been successful in finding a solution for two thirds of the
families. By far, most of them were given the possibility to stay in their homes, but
in a few cases it was necessary to sell the property at loss - yet the family avoided
a sale by order of the court.
Money laundering
Jyske Bank wishes in all respect to contribute to prevention of money laundering
and financing of terrorism, and, to this end, the bank cooperates with the authorities. This is ensured, among other things, through continuous education and
CSR Report 2015
Page 4

awareness, cross-organisational processes and guidelines, systematic monitoring
and reporting.
In 2015, a new monitoring system, among other things, was implemented, and
the task to ensure a high and uniform quality in the collection of data about clients’ purpose and scope has been centralised with a new team, which is anchored
with the monitoring function in order to establish a high professional level. Moreover, new training material has been prepared for the employees.
Tax evasion
Jyske Bank has a clear policy not to contribute to tax evasion. In 2010, the international units therefore decided to strengthen their efforts in respect of tax transparency by, in future, solely to work with clients in connection with whom Jyske Bank
either ensures that they declare their tax liabilities to the relevant tax authorities
or that Jyske Bank takes care of the reporting to the tax authorities. The clients
who could not produce documentation of tax transparency were given the opportunity to initiate a declaration process in their home countries.
The project was completed on 30 June 2014. Clients who did not declare their tax
liabilities had their accounts and custody accounts blocked. They can only have access to their funds by transferring their accounts to another bank. This project is in
line with the Group’s work initiated in 2015 to implement FATCA, CRS and stricter
rules on money laundering.
In the autumn of 2014, Jyske Bank Compliance conducted a comprehensive review
to examine whether this policy had been embraced by the employees of the international units and whether client accounts had been blocked as outlined above.
The result was very positive and all reports were ’green’. In 2015, special focus
was on compliance of the new rules on the prevention of money laundering and
terrorist financing.

CSR Report 2015
Page 5

Investments
Jyske Bank assumes responsibility in connection with investments. Therefore environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues are taken into consideration in
the investment decision process.
Principles for responsible investment
Jyske Bank has signed the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which is a
joint declaration on corporate social responsibility in connection with investments
and the fulfilment of six key principles for responsible investment.
1.	 We will incorporate environmental, social and active ownership issues into
investment analyses and decision-making processes.
2.	 We will seek to take active ownership and incorporate environmental and social issues in our policies on ownership and in the practical handling of investments.
3.	 We will seek to achieve openness on environmental and social issues as well
as active ownership from the units in which we invest.
4.	 We will promote acceptance and implementation of the principles within the
investment industry.
5.	 We will cooperate with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the implementation of the principles.
6.	 We will report our activities and progress in the implementation of the principles.
Jyske Bank conducts every year its ”Reporting and Assessment Process” according
to the PRI guidelines. According to the guidelines, parts of the subsequent report
were published on PRI’s website.
Screening of companies
Jyske Bank has entered into an agreement with an external adviser, who on an
on-going basis reports on the development of companies seriously violating international norms or conventions.
Jyske Bank has established an internal committee, which can quickly be convened
to decide on Jyske Bank’s stance on the individual investment or the individual
company. The committee assesses the reports, determines the contribution to the
cooperation with other investors on active ownership and takes action in situations involving companies facing challenges in respect of environments, social or
governance (ESG) issues.
CSR Report 2015
Page 6

Exercising responsibility when selecting investments is a very complicated matter. Opinions differ widely when it comes to responsible investment. Investors,
authorities, media, politicians and interest groups have varying definitions of the
concept. Jyske Bank wishes to be at liberty to assess which companies and industries it will invest in on the basis of corporate social responsibility.
Together with other investors, Jyske Bank attempts to make enterprises change
their behaviour regarding violation of international conventions and norms. In
many of these cases, it was ascertained that the engagement generated very
positive results.
In December 2013, Rådet for Samfundsansvar (the Danish Council for Corporate
Responsibility) issued guidelines for responsible investment in government bonds.
These guidelines advocate that two principles be met:
1.	 International sanctions and bans issued by the UN and the EU must always be
complied with. Jyske Bank complies with this principle.
2.	 Investors must, to the extent possible, themselves examine the conditions
in countries that may pose a significant risk of violating human rights. Jyske
Bank complies with this requirement and demands reports from our suppliers
on their approach to this principle.
Danish Social Investment Forum (DANSIF)
Being a member of the Danish Social Investment Forum (DANSIF), Jyske Bank
participated in the most recent annual survey (August 2015) of responsible investment in Denmark. The survey found that 88% of the 50 largest institutional
investors in Denmark have a policy for responsible investments, representing 98%
of the total Assets Under Management (AUM).

CSR Report 2015
Page 7

Climate and environment
The Jyske Bank Group is aware of its responsibility for the environment and endeavours to ensure effective and careful employment of resources. The Group
consistently relates to energy consumption, choice of materials and reduction of
carbon dioxide emissions and gives high priority to installations and solutions
minimising the environmental impact. Employees are involved in this work where
this is relevant.
Water and electricity
In recent years, the Jyske Bank Group has on an on-going basis replaced electric
light bulbs to LED lighting, and in 2015 1,600 new LED bulbs were installed. In
this way the Group saved about 72,000 kWh and reduced the need for cooling to
about 24,000 kWh a year. Throughout the Group, water-conserving models are
installed when establishing and replacing sanitary appliances and bathroom fittings.
Waste and recycling
Paper and cardboard waste is sorted carefully and recycled in cooperation with an
external supplier of recycling solutions. Similarly, metal waste is being recycled.
The Group continuously attempts to reduce the amount of printed materials, and
when printing marketing materials, practically all products used carry the Nordic
Ecolabel, whether the marketing materials are printed by the Group’s own printing
shop or by an external printing shop.
Used computers and furniture are to the greatest extent possible being reused and
given a ‘new lease on life’ in other places. For instance, a container with furniture
from Jyske Bank was in December shipped to a new branch of Kofoeds Skole (an
independent, non-profit humanitarian organization) in Greenland. Also, a refugee
centre i Aalborg received used furniture from the bank. Moreover, in 2015, the
Group donated about 300 used computers to charitable projects.
Purchases of environmentally friendly and non-allergic products
In 2015, soap products were in all toilets replaced by soap without perfume and
all air fresheners have been abolished. In future, only hand soap with the Nordic
Ecolabel will be available in Jyske Bank’s Webshop. Towel rolls and towels have
been replaced with environmentally friendly paper towels that are delivered to the
branches with other goods from the bank’s Webshop. In this way, transportation
of goods is being reduced.

CSR Report 2015
Page 8

Food chosen with care
It is the aim of the canteens of the Jyske Bank Group to serve the employees tasty
meals that are also nutritionally balanced. As far as possible, local Danish produce
in season is used, and the canteens make most things from scratch. This ensures
knowledge of the ingredients and makes it easier to avoid unnecessary additives.
Since 2011, the canteens in Silkeborg have focused their efforts to reduce food
waste in all processes. In 2014, the trays were removed in the canteen - which
was a successful initiative - and in 2015 transparent buckets showing measurements for food waste were placed in the kitchen so the type and amount of food
waste became visible.
In 2015 all bottled beverages were replaced by canned beverages, and water
glasses were replaced by polycarbonate (plastic) drinking glasses that can be
reused. This means that the heavy lift loads for the canteens’ employees are reduced, and it has become easier and more environmentally friendly to transport
and handle packaging materials and containers. Moreover, all cans are recycled also those without a deposit.
At the beginning of the year, the sideboard for guests and some worktops in the
kitchen were replaced. This ensured better work flows, better cooling systems
resulting in about 30% lower energy consumption, less inappropriate lifting and
less noise. Also, all three canteens in Silkeborg have now been equipped with the
same kind of soap dispensers ensuring that the employees use the right products
and doses.
In 2015, the canteen at BRFkredit in Lyngby entered into a cooperation scheme
with Daka Refood, which collects about 200 kg food waste a week to be recycled.
The canteen expects that it will be able to reduce its waste for incineration by a
third due to this initiative. The canteens in Silkeborg plan to recycle coffee grounds
and food waste in 2016.

CSR Report 2015
Page 9

Employees
The Jyske Bank Group intends to be a place of work that creates lasting relations in
a productive, trusting and unpretentious working environment characterised by
reserves of strength and positive energy. It is an important principle that the Group
is a socially responsible employer within the limits set by the market economy under
which the Group operates. Both managers and employees are involved in this work.
Human rights
Jyske Bank operates in Denmark, which has acceded to the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European convention on Human Rights.
Therefore the Jyske Bank Group has found it of no relevance to adopt special policies
on human rights.
Working environment
With a view to strengthening efforts to secure a good working environment, the
Group has centrally appointed employees holding special competences to handle
such tasks. And in order to secure the working environment locally, working environment groups have been established in the individual branches. Also, a dialogue-based workplace assessment is offered as an alternative to the traditional
form-based workplace assessment. The purpose is to involve employees actively in
the improvement of their own working environment. In 2014 as well as 2015, the
Danish Working Environment Authority awarded the Group ’green smileys’ at all
inspections.
In 2015, the Group’s measures to prevent and handle sickness absence have been
scrutinized due to the reform in respect of sickness benefits. This resulted in
stronger focus on a maintaining a close dialogue between the person absent due
to sickness and his/her leader as well as new tools to document agreements on
return to work and job retention.
Accommodation and inclusion
It will contribute to both innovation and a good working environment when many
different types of people work together. To a great extent, the Jyske Bank Group
reflects the surrounding world and employs people with a great variety in respect
of education, age, personality, culture and experience.

CSR Report 2015
Page 10

In 2015, the Jyske Bank Group had about 20 employees hired under the flexible
job scheme, corresponding to about 10 full-time employees. These are primarily
the Group’s own employees whose working capacity has been reduced as well as
a few employees who were hired directly for a new position under the flexible job
scheme. The Group strives to the greatest extent possible to retain employees if
they fall ill or have an accident.
In 2005, BRFkredit entered into cooperation with Job- og Aktivitetscentret Sandtoften, (a job and activity centre) about cleaning jobs at BRFkredit. Sandtoften
offers jobs for people with mental disabilities and the initiative is run by Gentofte
Municipality. Through this cooperation scheme, BRFkredit leads the way in attempts to offer persons with reduced working capacity the possibility of having a
meaningful everyday life, cooperation with colleagues and the possibility of performing useful and valued jobs. In 2015, seven persons with mental disabilities
were employed in cleaning jobs at BRFkredit. Moreover, seven persons suffering
from cognitive disorder are employed in the team that takes care of BRFkredit’s
outdoor areas.
”The professional Partnership” between two job centres and BRFkredit
In 2015, BRFkredit completed a one-year cooperation programme with two local
job centres on trainee positions in a corporate environment for unemployed at
risk. BRFkredit made six trainee positions available to the job centres, which subsidised a mentor position so BRFkredit was able to hire a full-time social mentor.
The mentor performed tasks that would normally be done at the job centres, for
instance, progress interviews with the trainees, clarification of working capacity,
assistance relating to basic skills such as duty of attendance and social skills in
the workplace. The mentor worked across the branches at BRFkredit so that the
individual leader was only the professional leader.
Training and trainee positions
Being an employer, the Jyske Bank Group has the responsibility of offering young
people access to jobs and training and to ensure the development of its employees
so they are of value to the labour market. On the other hand, there must be prospects of lasting future employment. Employment of newly qualified employees
still form a significant element of the Group’s recruitment even though the level
has fallen in step with generally lower employment in the financial sector. In order
to stimulate the interest in empowerment and competence development and to
ensure the interrelationship between public and private education, the Group has
since 2010 awarded ECTS credits in connection with its internal training schemes,
and these efforts have continued since then.
A new initiative in 2015 was that Jyske Bank hired five graduates in trainee poCSR Report 2015
Page 11

sitions in Retail & Commercial Banking, Denmark. They take part of a formalised
training programme that will be evaluated on an on-going basis. For the basic
financial training programme, the following number of employees were allocated
in 2015 in Retail & Commercial Banking, Denmark and BRFkredit:
TRAINEE POSITIONS IN 2015
Financial trainees (BRFkredit)
Financial Management degree holders
Bachelors of Financial Management
and Services
Graduates/candidates
Total

4
21
18
5
48

As usual, when needed, Capital Markets and Finance & Risk Management hire
newly educated candidates who will typically take part in customised training programmes.
Voluntary work
The Jyske Bank Group has a very positive view of employees’ social and voluntary
involvement. Therefore to a reasonable extent, employees may use the Bank’s
resources, e.g. print, email, telephones, conference rooms, etc. in support of such
voluntary work. Furthermore, Jyske Bank supports account managers’ and advisers’ work on voluntary debt counselling instigated by the Danish Ministry of Social Affairs and Integration and a number of organisations by offering them time
off with pay covering half the time they spend on such work. In 2015, Jyske Bank
contributed five debt counsellors, which more or less corresponds to the Bank’s
market share. Moreover, Jyske Bank has established an employee foundation, of
which one purpose among others is to support current and former employees of
the Jyske Bank Group.
Health care
The Jyske Bank Group has a general focus on its employees’ health in the work
place. For instance, healthy food in the canteens and a fruit buffet are offered, and
via the intranet all employees have access to small physical training programmes
that may help reduce and prevent physical strain on and pain in shoulders and
neck, for instance, due to PC work. Most recently, ideas have been launched as
to how employees can be more physically active at work, for instance by having
’standing meetings’.

CSR Report 2015
Page 12

CSR initiatives in 2015 - an overview
The Jyske Bank Group wishes to be involved actively in CSR projects where our
competences and resources are being utilised to the benefit of society. Often we
solve problems in cooperation with clients and other partners who know the local
community and have a special interest in improving it. Below we have listed some
of the projects and cooperation schemes in which we were involved in 2015.

Participation in Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (People’s movement
against loneliness)
More than 210,000 Danes feel lonely. Therefore BRFkredit and Jyske Bank joined
forces with 60 organisations, associations, municipalities and enterprises in Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (People’s movement against loneliness). One initiative
we launched was to have loneliness as a theme in our tent on the city hall square in
Aarhus during the Aarhus Festival in September 2015. Read more on page 25.
Sportscar Event – cooperation in support of Børnecancerfonden (Danish
Children’s Cancer Foundation)
Since 2004, Jyske Bank has supported Børnecancerfonden, for instance, by being
the main sponsor of the cars that have become symbols of Sportscar Event and by
cooperating on the events that collect money for children with cancer and their
families. In 2015, the amount of DKK 1.5m was collected for Børnecancerfonden.
Read more on page 18.

fødevareBanken (foodBank) - from food waste to meals
Since 2012, BRFkredit has worked together with the socioeconomic enterprise
fødevareBanken (foodBank), which has two purposes: to avoid food waste and to
fight food poverty. In 2014, this cooperation programme was awarded the partnership prize of the year. In 2015, the Jyske Bank Group entered into a new partnership agreement, and together we focused on food waste, for instance during
the Aarhus Festival. Read more on page 23.

MurMal (Mural) - art creates trainee positions and a neighbourhood feeling
CSR Report 2015
Page 13

in the city
In 2015, BRFkredit and Jyske Bank had two murals created. At the tower in the
park Kildeparken in Aalborg and in Klubben Rosenhøj in Aarhus. Through the MurMal projects, citizens are actively involved in an artistic process, which ends up in
a large mural through the help of several partners - private enterprises, an artist,
a municipality, a housing association and trainees from a local vocational school.
The objective is to create trainee positions, beautification and a neighbourhood
feeling in the local community. Read more on page 21.
Storbylandsbyen (CityVillage) in Aarhus
On Marienlystvangen close to Skejby Hospital, Østjysk Bolig, Aarhus Municipality and Socialt Udviklingscenter - SUS (a social development centre) started the
project Storbylandsbyen (CityVillage), which, in brief, is an inclusive environment
where 20 socially disadvantaged or homeless people and 20 ’ordinary’ residents
will be living side by side. In 2015, BRFkredit has together with local residents developed projects that have strengthened the neighbourhood feeling and beautified
the common areas - outdoor as well as indoor. Read more on page 16.

When cleaning and lawn mowing makes a difference socially
Since 2005, people with reduced working capacity have been part of the cleaning
team and since 2009 of the team maintaining the outdoor areas at BRFkredit. In
this way they have been given the possibility of having a meaningful everyday life,
cooperation with colleagues and the possibility of performing useful and valued
jobs In 2015, a total of 14 persons were employed on special conditions in the
gardening and cleaning team. Read more on page 20.

Furniture and computers are given ’a new lease on life’
When the Jyske Bank Goup replaces furniture and equipment, these are often
given ’a new lease on life’ to the benefit of others. In December 2015, a container
with furniture and other equipment from Jyske Bank was shipped to a new branch
of Kofoeds Skole (an independent, non-profit humanitarian organization) in Greenland. And in 2015/16, the Group donates about 500 used computers to charitable
projects, for instance for homework cafes and drop-in centres in housing estates
at risk.

CSR Report 2015
Page 14

Aarhus Festival (Aarhus Festuge)
During the Aarhus Festival, BRFkredit and Jyske Bank hosted a number of public
events in our tent on the city hall square in Aarhus. Together with the citizens of
Aarhus, we highlighted dilemmas and opportunities in Aarhus and invited for a
debate on how the city can improve to be better place to live for everyone. We
highlighted the problem of homelessness, loneliness, neighbourhood feeling, town
development and new types of housing.

Defibrillators
In 2014, Jyske Bank was given ’Førstehjælpsprisen’ (first aid award) by the Danish
Red Cross in consideration of the its work to install defibrillators in public areas
close its branches all over the country. It should also be added that a majority of
the bank’s employees have taken courses in first aid and the use of defibrillators.
In spring 2015, Jyske Bank launched a refresher video course in first aid.

Help to Muhabet – a drop-in centre for mentally ill refugees and immigrants
Pleasant-smelling food, hot tea and a safe atmosphere. That is what Muhabet offers
its visitors who are difficult to reach for the established welfare system. Since 2009,
BRFkredit has helped Muhabet with professional counselling and networking. For
instance in the form of legal assistance, securing a financial foundation, recruitment
of board members and the holding of events.

Ten years of Jyske 3-bold (Jyske 3-ball
Jyske 3-bold was launched by Jyske Bank in 2005 and has since then developed
into regular annual event. A simple concept: Bring children to small playing field,
simple rules and focus on the joy of playing rather than results. In 2015, 14 events
where held with about 9,000 children at the age of 6-9 years. Jyske Bank provides
healthy snacks and mineral water, which the hosting sports clubs sell to the participants, and the clubs get the profit from these sales Each event is arranged in
close cooperation with units of Dansk Boldspil Union (Danish Football Association)
and local football clubs all over the country.

CSR Report 2015
Page 15

Storbylandsbyen (CityVillage)
- Neighbourhood feeling and beautification
Objective
On Marienlystvangen close to Skejby Hospital, 20 black wooden houses form the
basis of the project Storbylandsbyen (CityVillage), which, in brief, is an inclusive
environment where 20 socially disadvantaged/homeless people and 20 ’ordinary’
residents will be living side by side in the new branch of the housing association, which was completed in summer 2014. Behind the project are the housing
association Østjysk Bolig, Aarhus Municipality and Socialt Udviklingscenter - SUS
(a social development centre), which together with a social caretaker/janitor and
the residents of the housing association branch - resourceful as well as disadvantaged - are to create a good, social community in the branch. The reason is that
this community is to help the disadvantaged residents to establish ordinary dayto-day routines. Therefore inclusion, social cohesion and a good neighbourhood
are key objectives of this project, in which BRFkredit has been involved since the
residents moved in.
Initiative
Following several meetings with the residents and not least the executive committee of the branch, we ended up with the following initiatives. The initiatives
were based on three criteria: to create a neighbourhood feeling, beautification and
involvement of external resourceful partners.
The following initiatives were launched:
1.	 Production of artwork for an end-wall in the common house in cooperation
with an external artist.
2.	 Planting of fruit trees and establishment of a village green in front of the common house.
Thanks to a donation from Oak Foundation and BRFkredit/Jyske Bank and the project management by BRFkredit, the initiatives were completed in 2014 and 2015.
Results
All homes are inhabited, and the project has been successful retaining all the
former homeless people and creating a good environment, among other things,

CSR Report 2015
Page 16

due to the events for residents. On the outdoor areas, trees and ornamental plants
have been planted, and a pizza oven has been installed on the terrace. In the
common house, a large ’MurMal’ - mural - is decorating the wall. The mural was
created over a weekend by the residents and the artist Jeppe K. Jensen. Moreover,
at the request of the residents, several gardening tools were purchased as well as
a grass cleaning and snow removal machine. The neighbourhood feeling has been
felt during the activities, and the involvement of both residents and external partners contributed to the visible results.
Effect
Once again the partnership model with the involvement of stakeholders from various groups in society has proven efficient. Now StorbyLandsbyen (CityVillage) has
existed for 18 months and turned out to be a success. The branch of the housing
association has developed a model offering many exciting aspects that other cities
in Denmark are interested in - as has been proven by the many visits from all parts
of the country. The core of the success is that the model offers the most disadvantaged citizens a chance through the neighbourhood to become integrated in a
permanent living environment together with other ordinary residents.
During the Aarhus Festival in September, Jyske Bank/BRFkredit held on the city
hall square in Aarhus a debate on homelessness and housing types in Denmark,
and more than 70 people participated. Particularly many homeless people were
represented, and the meeting was reported by several media.

CSR Report 2015
Page 17

Sportscar Event
– cooperation in support of Børnecancerfonden
(Danish Children’s Cancer Foundation)
Objective
To collect money for Børnecancerfonden and to offer children with cancer and their
families good experiences.
Initiative
Sportscar Event is a foundation consisting of dedicated private individuals who
volunteer their sports cars for a number of charity events in support of Børnecancerfonden.
Each year the public can experience about 80 unique sports cars and buy a ride as
a co-driver in one of the cars. The events take place on FDM Sjællandsringen close
to Roskilde, FDM Jyllandsringen close to Silkeborg and HCA Airport close to Odense
– and additional venues are in the offing. Moreover, children with cancer and their
families are being invited for a closed event where they will be given free rides and
can have a fun day together - without having to think of their disease.
Since 2004, Jyske Bank has supported the Sportscar Event. The support takes
place in the form of sponsoring the car that is the signature car for the Sportscar
Event and by contributing gifts, competitions, food and beverages as well as assistance to carry out the events for the children with cancer and their families.
In connection with the Sportscar Event in 2015, Jyske Bank also hosted three VIP
events for 640 of its clients. Also, the sports car that Jyske Bank sponsors has been
used for marketing events and competitions at the branches of the bank, which
initiative has also increased focus on children with cancer.
Results
Since the beginning in early 2002, Sportscar Event has each year grown to become
an increasingly bigger event. Through the years, more than DKK 12m have been
donated to Børnecancerfonden, and in 2015 the donation came to a total of DKK
1.5m.

CSR Report 2015
Page 18

Effect
Jyske Bank’s cooperation with Sportscar Event helped to increase focus on the
important function and work of Børnecancerfonden. Every year, about 200 children
and young people are diagnosed with cancer. But not only the child will be affected. Also siblings, parents, family and friends. Over the years, Børnecancerfonden has given considerable support for research in diagnostics and treatment
of cancer diseases with children and has moreover helped the children and their
families to have experiences and provided them with information material.
Watch a film abojut Sportscar Event on Jyske Bank TV

CSR Report 2015
Page 19

Gartnerteamet (Gardening Team)
- When lawn mowing makes a difference socially
Objective
Since 2009, BRFkredit has worked with Job- & Aktivitetscenteret (job and activity
centre) in Gentofte to offer people with reduced working capacity a chance in the
labour market. The objective is, in a safe setting, to make employees ready for the
labour market and instil faith in themselves and in a future in the labour market.
Initiative
At the request of BRFkredit, Job- & Aktivitetscenteret (job and activity centre) in
Gentofte took over, in 2009, the task of maintaining BRFkredit’s outdoor areas on
Klampenborgvej in Lyngby. This happened on the basis of the good track record
since 2005 from having people with mental disabilities on the cleaning team at
BRFkredit. The initiative gave rise to a new employment project, Gartnerteamet
(Gardening Team) offering persons suffering from cognitive disorders support and
guidance from a trained gardener, who also ensures a high quality of the work.
Hence, in a safe setting, the employees are given the opportunity to develop their
competences within gardening and to be prepared for the labour market. The Gardening Team works three days a week at BRFkredit.
Results
In 2015, five persons were employed under a protected employment programme
and wage subsidies were received for two persons in Gartnerteamet (Gardening
Team). And, over time, more than 20 people have through Gartnerteamet enhanced their qualifications and trained for the labour market. Once employees have
enhanced their qualifications, they are given the opportunity to be hired for a job
with wage subsidies under the project or to be given assistance to find another job
on the regular labour market.
Effect
It is a natural element of the culture at BRFkredit to take social responsibility and
to make room for diversity. When, during their everyday routines, employees meet
persons with mental disabilities, persons with autism and other persons with
special needs, social consciousness is strengthened in the company. Also, a group
of citizens are included in a community and perform useful and valued tasks, which
gives them a work identity and a meaningful everyday life. In this way, loneliness
and social problems are prevented, and eventually result in savings for society. To
this must be added that the public sector spend less money on transfer payments,
etc. when such citizens are employed.
CSR Report 2015
Page 20

MurMal
- Towering mural in Kildeparken, Aalborg and meaningful art at Rosenhøj, Aarhus.
Objective
In addition to beautifying the areas, two large murals, in Aarhus and in Aalborg,
create a community spirit among citizens, making them feel interested in their
neighbourhood by activating them through art. Also, it helps the citizens to take
ownership of their neighbourhood. At the same time, the project has aimed to
offer young students from Kofoeds Skole (a non-profit humanitarian organization)
and Aarhus Tech (a vocational school) the opportunity to perform the task during
their trainee period.
Initiative
In January 2015, BRFkredit/Jyske Bank initiated the MurMal project (mural) in the
park Kildeparken in Aalborg, together with students from Kofoeds Skole. Socially
disadvantaged Greenlanders tend to hang out in the park to meet like-minded
people, but unfortunately they also create an atmosphere of insecurity. Therefore
they will now contribute to a community spirit, safety and culture by decorating
the tower in the park. The project in Aalborg was initiated by BRFkredit/Jyske
Bank, Det Obelske Familiefond, Aalborg Kommune (municipality) and Kofoeds
Skole when they set up a steering committee. The artist Pàll Isaksson was chosen
as the project manager for the task, and the steering group was expanded when
Fibertex, Flügger and Aalborg Kongres & Kultur Center joined as members. In May
2015, ten students from Kofoeds Skole began to decorate the tower.
In early 2015, BRFkredit/Jyske bank and the club Rosenhøj in Aarhus took the
initiative to launch the MurMal project. Together they began to develop ideas for
the subject of the mural at the new sports facilities. The purpose of the project
MurMal - mural - is not merely to decorate a drab wall but also to strengthen the
community spirit through a dialogue-based process taking place among children
who are all of another ethnic background than Danish. The artist Max Parylewicz
was chosen to be in charge of the extensive artistic and pedagogical task. In Aarhus, the steering committee - which consisted of the club management, Det Boligsociale Sekretariat and BRFkredit/Jyske Bank - chose the final image to decorate
the 29-meter high end wall. The preparatory work was performed by students from
Aarhus Tech, who washed down the wall and contributed to the work of decorating
the wall. The paint company Flügger donated all the paint for both works of art.

CSR Report 2015
Page 21

Results
Both murals were completed in August and have gained recognition for their ability to give a boost to the local areas. However, the most important thing is that the
users of the areas in Aarhus and Aalborg were involved in the process of decorating the areas where they spend many hours every day. The students from Kofoeds
Skole as well as Aarhus Tech gained practical experience outside their respective
traditional learning environments. Among other things, this resulted in regular
employment for two of the students from Kofoeds Skole. Both MurMal projects
have regularly been communicated positively and given praise, among others, by
Nordjyske, Jyske Tv, Århus Stiftstidende and Jyllands-Posten.
Effect
Once again it was proven that the MurMal project offers a very good platform
for cooperation between businesses, educational institutions as well as citizens
involved and residents. This is of great value for BRFkredit/Jyske Bank, the other
project parners, the local communities and in particular the young students from
both Koefods Skole and Aarhus Tech, who received recognition for their work,
which may also result in regular employment.
In addition to the inspiration from the artists, the works of art were also created
on the basis of ideas from and dialogues with the citizens involved. Inclusion of
the citizens involved is an important prerequisite for ensuring that the work of art
becomes an attraction for the area and offers a positive experience in the urban
open space. It turns out that the citizens take better care of their local community
when they are actively involved.
About MurMal (Mural)
Since 2010, BRFkredit has been the driving force behind a number of murals in
several locations throughout the country. Through the mural projects, citizens are
actively involved in an artistic process, which ends up in a large mural thanks to
contributions from several partners - typically private enterprises, a municipality,
a housing association and an educational institution.
Read more about the MurMal project on Jyske Bank’s website

CSR Report 2015
Page 22

Cooperation with fødevareBanken (foodBank)
Objective
The Jyske Bank Group has chosen to work with socio-economic enterprises because
the concept offers the opportunity of contributing considerable social efforts.
fødevareBanken (foodBank) is a non-profit and apolitical association founded in
2009, which addresses the social problems: food waste and food poverty. The
enterprise receives surplus food from food producers, agriculture, supermarkets
and wholesalers, which they distribute among organisations working for and with
socially disadvantaged people - including children, crisis-stricken women and men,
homeless, drug addicts and mentally ill people.
The partnership between Jyske Bank and fødevareBanken (foodBank) is based on
shared valued and an exchange of resources, both material and immaterial, which
may turn out to be very advantageous for both partners. Within the next couple
of years, fødevareBanken will expand by two operations centre, and Jyske Bank
intends to help to build a solid fundraising platform for fødevareBanken.
Initiative
The two partners have worked together since 2012, and BRFkredit has acted as a
mentor contributing assistance with respect to legal issues, HR, communications,
and sharing of networks and boardroom discussions.
Jyske Bank/BRFkredit uses its corporate network and ’entrepreneurial’ persons
to spread the knowledge of fødevareBanken’s work and to set up a corporate club.
Also, Jyske Bank helps to spread the knowledge of fødevareBanken through its own
channels: TV, CSR site and internal media. Furthermore, thanks to funds from the
Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, Jyske Bank has been able to
carry out a project with the purpose of spreading the knowledge of five partnerships
between socio-economic enterprises and ordinary businesses and illustrate how
such partnerships create value for both parties.
Results
Jyske TV has produced an informative film on the work of fødevareBanken and the
partnership. The film is intended to offer general information and to be shown on

CSR Report 2015
Page 23

the Group’s websites. Moreover, Jyske Bank has distributed knowledge of the work
carried out by fødevareBanken at large corporate conferences and also at large
client meetings.
During the Aarhus Festival, the partners established two large VIP dinners where
the bank’s clients were offered a four-course menu based on fødevareBanken’s
surplus food. Also, the two partners held joint events.
Generally, the cooperation programme has strengthened the ”license to operate”
for both partners, which in 2014 had the result that they were awarded the prize
”Årets partnerskab” (Partnership of the Year).
The results from the project work, of which the objective was to spread the knowledge of how partnerships between socio-economic enterprises and ordinary
businesses create value, are published at two conferences in Copenhagen and in
Jutland.
Effect
fødevareBanken makes a considerable mark on the environment. In 2014, 426
tonnes of surplus food were distributed to socially disadvantaged people. In 2015,
the amount came to 600 tonnes. This is a growth rate of 42%, which in particular
can be attributed to the start of a branch in Aarhus. There are more than 100 recipient organisations. fødevareBanken covers the Greater Copenhagen Area, Lyngby,
Taastrup, Roskilde, Aarhus and environs, Randers, Favrskov and in December a
new route was launched to Viborg.
There is a total of 150 volunteers in Aarhus and Copenhagen.
The target in terms of meals:
2015: 1.5 million meals in and around the Greater Copenhagen Area and Aarhus
2016: 2.0 million meals in and around the Greater Copenhagen Area, Aarhus and
Kolding
2017: 2.5 million meals in and around the Greater Copenhagen Area, Aarhus, Kolding and Aalborg
2018: 3.0 million meals over the entire country, Zealand, Jutland and Funen.

CSR Report 2015
Page 24

Participation in Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (People’s movement against loneliness)
Objective
More than 210,000 Danes - young as old - often feel lonely. Unfortunately this is
a problem subject to taboo, and it is magnified because you have nobody to share
it with. Therefore Jyske Bank and BRFkredit have, in Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (People’s movement against loneliness), actively joined forces with about 60
organisations, associations, schools and municipalities. We agree that loneliness
is a problem that must be addressed.
Initiative
The Jyske Bank Group already makes efforts to fight loneliness. For instance, we
make efforts to improve well-being and welfare in subsidized housing estates, and
we strive to support the community spirit in sports clubs and drop-in centres. But
we can make a special effort - especially when we join forces with others.
During the week of 20 April (week 17) in 2015, Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed
(People’s movement against loneliness) and DR (Danish Broadcasting Corporation) highlighted the problem of loneliness. Through a national campaign with the
slogan ’contact the ones closest to you’, the Danes were encouraged to contact and
reach out to people in their vicinity. Both known and unknown people. You do not
really know who is feeling lonely.
The Group CSR department of Jyske Bank also encouraged the employees to break
the taboo about loneliness and contact colleagues and people in their surroundings. In the canteens in Silkeborg and Lyngby, loneliness was on the lunch
menu and everyone was encouraged to eat lunch with someone else than their
usual lunch buddies. Also during the Aarhus Festival in September 2015, the
Group again put loneliness on the agenda. It did so in BRFkredit and Jyske Bank’s
tent at the city hall in Aarhus where DaneAge Association (Ældre Sagen) and the
Danish Red Cross Youth had been invited to a debate of voluntary work, loneliness
and community spirit.

CSR Report 2015
Page 25

Results
Together with Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (People’s movement against
loneliness), the Jyske Bank Group helped to break the taboo, which is an important
problem in society. The many members of Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed
(People’s movement against loneliness) have together been able to reach employees, members, clients and volunteers. Also, during the campaign week, 18
posts were created on the Facebook page of Folkebevægelsen, which were read by
about 100,000 people. Also, Folkebevægelsen was clearly seen at events in DaneAge Association (Ældre Sagen)’s tent at Folkemødet – The People’s Political Festival
on Bornholm and at the Jyske Bank Group’s tent during the Aarhus festival where
about 150 people participated in debates about loneliness.
Effect
Loneliness is a problem with serious consequences for individuals, and the problem means high expenses for society. Therefore Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed
(People’s movement against loneliness) has the aim to reduce loneliness by 50%
by 2020. It is a great task and an ambitious aim. However, when many join forces
to break the taboo, we can together create a wide variety of activities and hence a
more feasible way to address the problem of loneliness. And therefore, the chances
of achieving the aim - to have much fewer lonely people - are much bigger.
Read more about Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (people’s movement against
loneliness) on www.modensomhed.dk (in Danish).

CSR Report 2015
Page 26

Initiatives 2016
Many of the CSR initiatives we have worked with in 2015 will continue in 2016,
but during the year we will also put more emphasis on existing initiatives and
launch new ones.
Internal initiatives
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

To reduce job dissatisfaction among employees, a preventive process is being
developed, making it possible on the part of management to launch earlier
measures and a more pro-active dialogue.
A campaign targeting all employees in the Group to contribute to efforts reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
Recycling of food waste for biofuel. The employees will be actively involved in
these efforts, for instance by sorting food waste.
Reduction of paper for print.
A larger number of products with the Nordic Ecolabel in the Webshop - as a
minimum stationery, paper articles, soaps and detergents.
Reusing the Group’s furniture and equipment for social purposes.

External initiatives
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

•	
•	

Project ”Amalievej” focusing on community spirit and beautification of private
residential areas.
fødevareBanken (foodBank), development of the project by involving local
branches.
A large, significant mural - MurMaleri - will be initiated in Aalborg.
Cooperation with Save the Children Fund about the project: Out of the ghetto into the countryside. The aim is to create experiences in areas of natural beauty
and new communities for children at risk in cooperation with our clients.
Active participation in Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (People’s movement
against loneliness)’s campaign: ”Danmark Spiser Sammen” (Danes dine
together), where we will help to arrange meals focusing on community spirit
and groups at risk.
Cooperation and support to the Danish Cancer Society in respect of children
with cancer.
Donation of the Group’s used computes to charitable projects.

CSR Report 2015
Page 27

