Corporate governance
– statement of corporate governance
and corporate social responsibility

Corporate social responsibilityRoblon has established a number of key subsidiary CSR policies,as well as laying down a general CSR policy based on the followingvalues:The company complies with and promotes human rightsstandards, in addition to making it a requirement thatRoblon’s suppliers also comply with human and workers’rights.The company establishes the best conditions for its employeesby making sure that their working environment is optimalin terms of their physical and mental well-being.Environmentally optimised technologies are utilised, withongoing focus on reducing the amount of energy used inproduction processes.The company makes every effort to limit the potential forterrorist activities and money laundering.Our aim is to achieve a working environment that activelypromotes health.The company works together with its suppliers to improvesocial and environmental conditions.The company works systematically on environmental andclimate management.A better understanding and commitment among our employeesand customers were both achieved during the course of the financialyear 2014/15.The company assumes corporate social responsibility as a way ofcreating value for both the business and its customers.Roblon has maintained its focus on sustainability and green conversionby recycling waste.A sustainability approach is followed in the acquisition of manufacturingequipment.Customer audits, employee surveys and similar measures thatsupport the company’s CSR policy have been undertaken.Quality policyRoblon wishes to come across as a well-reputed, developmentorientedand reliable supplier whose services continually meetour customers’ expectations. The company undertakes to alwayscomply with relevant requirements set by our partners, includingcustomers and authorities. Although only the company’sproduction facilities in Gærum are ISO 9001 certified, the entireorganisation works to the procedures and standards establishedpursuant to ISO 9001.The company realises its policy by:performing ad hoc measurements of compliance with deliverytimes to the customers.processing complaints efficiently and logging them as theyoccur.recording and systematically following up the number ofongoing suggestions for quality improvements.carrying out customer satisfaction analyses.

20 / Management report / Corporate governance
2014/15 saw the organisation become more aware of how it
could boost customer satisfaction through rapid response times,
confidence-building	dialogue	and	being	clearer	about	Roblon’s	
capacity, as well as meeting delivery times and other contractual obligations.
Environmental policy
Roblon wishes to be perceived as a green company committed
to bringing about regular eco-friendly development through its
activities with due regard to the state of natural resources, legal requirements and other relevant provisions applicable to the
company. The company’s production facilities in Gærum are ISO
14001	certified.

The	company	realises	its	policy	by:
having a safety organisation and systems in place to ensure
the documentation, implementation and maintenance of
the working environment system.
having co-determinant groups meet at least once a year to
discuss the working environment.
regularly following up on absence due to illness and thus
identifying any absence relating to working environment.
the company informing employees of results in this particular area.

The	company	realises	its	policy	by:
logging the energy consumption of electricity and gas to ensure	production	consumption	is	controlled	efficiently.
carrying out regular checks and follow-up of waste in
production.
assessing the environmental consequences to the company
and customers when using new materials.
informing employees or other people who work on behalf of
Roblon of the company’s environmental policy and environmental management system.
Over	the	course	of	the	financial	year,	Roblon	has	continued	to	
work on preventing and reducing the company’s external environmental	impact;	one	measure	has	been	to	ensure	that	new	
investments	are	energy-efficient.
Working environment policy
Both management and employees consider a good working
environment at Roblon to be an important prerequisite for the
company appearing professional and principled in relation to
customers and other partners. There is a safety organisation
based	at	each	of	Roblon’s	three	locations;	each	one	is	structured as stipulated in the relevant rules of the Danish Working
Environment Act.

In 2014/15 the company maintained and improved a safe and
sound working environment. Occupational injuries did occur
during the year, but none of these had serious consequences for
the employees involved.
Gender composition of management
Roblon’s policy is to support diversity among its employees,
including via an approximately equal gender distribution making
a positive contribution to the working environment and enhancing the company’s performance and competitiveness. In conjunction with the recruitment of new staff during the year, the
company has been very aware of the aim to employ the underrepresented	gender.	There	were	not,	however,	enough	qualified	
candidates applying for the vacant management positions that
needed	to	be	filled	during	the	year.	
Roblon has thus set the following targets for proportion of
under-represented gender.
Targets for gender composition in 2018
Board of Directors:
Proportion of under-represented gender
Proportion as at 31/10/2015

40%
33%

Senior management/Executive Management:
Proportion of under-represented gender
Proportion as at 31/10/2015

25%
0%

Middle management:
Proportion of under-represented gender
Proportion as at 31/10/2015

25%
10%

Corporate governance / Management report / 21

