ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2015

51

Corporate Social
Responsibility
At Royal Unibrew, we want to make a positive difference for our consumers and to create value for our stakeholders. In order to do that, we must
apply clear principles and strategies to the management of our business.
Consumers in all our markets must be able to rely on our products being
of a very high quality and produced under safe conditions. At the same
time, we must continuously seek to reduce our environmental impact
and contribute positively to the overall development of society.

A statement is made in accordance with
section 99A of the Danish Financial
Statements Act.
Our corporate social responsibility (CSR)
work is an integrated part of Royal Unibrew’s business approach, and our efforts in this area are based on our values and the ten principles of the United
Nations Global Compact in respect of
human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption as well as
other relevant internationally recognised
principles.
“Royal Unibrew’s Code of Ethics” is Management’s guidance to employees on
ethical issues, including issues relating
to corruption, human rights and environmental accountability.
Royal Unibrew has chosen to focus on
continuous improvements rather than
long-term objectives in relation to which
focus and compliance by the individual
employee in the day-to-day work may be
difficult. It is the objective to be able at all
times to deliver strong quality products
with due consideration of our employees
and Royal Unibrew’s surroundings. This
approach has resulted in satisfactory
improvements in a number of areas for
several years and will also form the basis of our future corporate social responsibility work.

FOCUS AREAS OF OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WORK

Environment

Occupational
health & safety

Competence
development

Food safety
& quality

CORPORATE
SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY

Anti-corruption
& competition

The areas which we have selected as the
focus areas of our social responsibility
work are shown in the figure below.

Royal
Unibrew’s
ethical guidelines

Responsible
consumption

efforts contribute towards creating new
business opportunities.

Ethical values and guidelines
Our CSR work supports a good dialogue with consumers, customers and
suppliers, which contributes towards
increasing production efficiency and
decreasing wastage and towards reducing non-financial risks and creating
and sustaining a strong corporate identity and culture. At the same time, these

Royal Unibrew’s values and ethical
guidelines are included as an integrated part of the employment relationship
agreed with the individual employee.
Our ethical guidelines imply, among other things, that Royal Unibrew does not
tolerate discrimination of its employees

52

ANNUAL REPORT 2015

R O YA L U N I B R E W

due to gender, race, religion or political
affiliation.
Royal Unibrew accedes to the principles
of human rights and labour standards including eg the principles on child labour
laid down by UNICEF, the UNGC and Save
the Children.
It is also Royal Unibrew’s aim that suppliers and partners should comply with
the ethical guidelines, and that these
should be incorporated into the Company’s terms of trading with key suppliers.
Royal Unibrew is only exposed to suppliers outside the EU to a very limited
extent.
Audits are performed regularly according to a customer-specific, international ethical standard at Royal Unibrew’s
brewery in Faxe.
Selected targets for 2016
• Continued training of Royal Unibrew
employees in ethical values and guidelines.

• As part of our cooperation with key
suppliers, Royal Unibrew’s ethical
guidelines are reviewed at annual status meetings.
• Maintenance of certification under the
customer-specific ethical standard.

the cooperation with customers and
suppliers.
• Anti-corruption training of new sales
staff and follow-up training of other
employees to be carried out.

Competition
Anti-corruption
Royal Unibrew works against all forms
of corruption, including extortion and
bribery, and the Company’s activities
must always be in full compliance with
anti-corruption legislation irrespective
of the place of operation.
According to Royal Unibrew’s ethical
guidelines, our employees are not allowed to offer or accept bribes or any
improper payments for personal or
corporate gain. Disciplinary actions will
be taken if an employee is involved in
bribery. The staff in all sales areas are
trained annually in this aspect.

Selected targets for 2016
• Our position on anti-corruption to be
stated in all contexts, both internally
in the supply chain and externally in

Royal Unibrew’s business should always be conducted in full compliance
with applicable competition regulation
irrespective of the place of operation. To
ensure this, Royal Unibrew has a competition law compliance programme
comprising a manual and guidelines as
well as regular training and follow-up, eg
through regular internal controls.
Selected targets for 2016
• Monitoring of competition law and updating of the Company’s compliance
programme.
• Training of new sales staff and continuous updating of other sales staff in/
on existing rules.
• Continuous follow-up by carrying out
internal controls and in connection
with signing of contracts.

Tax policy and tax payment
Royal Unibrew operates in a number of
countries and is therefore subject to both
national and international tax rules. At the
same time, the nature of Royal Unibrew’s
business implies that both direct and indirect taxes are paid in the individual markets. Throughw its tax payments, Royal
Unibrew contributes positively to society
in the respective countries – as it does
by creating jobs and using sub-suppliers.
The following general principles apply
to Royal Unibrew’s management of tax
issues:
• Royal Unibrew pays taxes on its activities in the countries in which the activities are carried out, and no special
tax structures for the purpose of tax
optimization are applied.
• Royal Unibrew endeavours to live up to
national and international tax legislation at all times and sets out to enter
into an open and constructive dialogue
with the tax authorities.

• Royal Unibrew has developed an internal organisation and has laid down
well-defined control procedures designed to ensure compliance with tax
legislation.
• Royal Unibrew wants to communicate
openly and fairly about its tax policy
and tax payments.
In 2015 the effective tax rate was 22% of
profit for the year. Royal Unibrew paid

a corporation tax of DKK 253 million.
In addition to that, Royal Unibrew’s activities generate other considerable tax
payments, including excise duties on
beer, mineral water and other items, VAT,
personal taxes and social security contributions. The total contribution through
taxes in 2015 amounted to DKK 4.4 billion. (2014: 4.4 billion). Moreover, tax
contributions from the Group's suppliers
and customers are indirectly generated.

ALLOCATION OF TAXES
5,7% 0,2%
6,7%

Excise duties
VAT
Personal taxes and social
security contributions
Company Income Taxes
Other taxes

Total taxes
2015

DKK 4.4bn

29,5%

57,9%

ROYA L U N I B R E W

Responsible alcoholic beverage
and soft drinks consumption

ANNUAL REPORT 2015

53

In Latvia Royal Unibrew along with other soft drinks producers supported the
preparation of a joint code for responsible marketing of soft drinks, and in 2015
campaigns on balanced consumption of
beverages were conducted.

curring work-related injuries and on actively promoting safety, job satisfaction
and efficiency.

• We engage consumers and stakeholders and work collectively with them to
promote responsible enjoyment of our
products.
• We respect that beer consumption is
for adults only and is a matter of individual choice and accountability.
• We ensure that our marketing practices are in compliance, at all times, with
the marketing legislation in the areas
in which our products are sold.
• We value responsibility in our corporate
culture and expect our employees to
demonstrate such responsibility in the
day-to-day handling of our products.

Moreover, the Baltic countries have focus on promoting beer with a lower alcohol content, and non-alcoholic beer
sales have gone up.

Royal Unibrew supports The Brewers of
Europe campaigns on responsible alcohol consumption and attaches great importance to responsible drinking.

Through a variety of sponsorships, Royal Unibrew supports sports and health
initiatives at both national, regional and
local level.

Royal Unibrew employees engaged in
product marketing are currently trained
and instructed in compliance with existing marketing legislation. Compliance
with existing marketing legislation is
part of Royal Unibrew’s agreements with
customers and partners, eg in the ontrade segment.

Selected targets for 2016
• Participation in and development of
”Responsible beer and soft drinks
consumption” in cooperation with local
industry organisations and The Brewers of Europe.
• Annual training of all relevant employees in responsible marketing of beverages and continuous monitoring of
compliance with existing rules as well
as activities in new marketing media.
• Workshop for in-house ”alcohol and
drug consultants”.
• Continuation of sponsorship efforts.

Denmark
• In 2014 a comprehensive training programme on behavioural safety for all
operators and salaried employees at
Faxe was initiated. Moreover, a group
of employees have been trained as
”ambassadors” with responsibility for
unfolding the health & safety dialogue
in the organisation. Efforts in this area
continued in 2015.
• All safety groups participated in a joint
health & safety day.
• A workplace assessment was carried
out among all employees in Denmark,
and based on this action plans are being prepared.
• All employees who work night shifts
have been offered a health check.
• Continuous focus is directed at
near-accidents, and all employees are
encouraged to report near-accidents
with a view to addressing and reducing
the number of such incidents.

Royal Unibrew’s commitment to responsible marketing and consumption
of beverages is rooted in the following
core principles:

In addition to complying with marketing
legislation and the above-mentioned
guidelines, Royal Unibrew gets involved
in customers’ communication on consumption of the Company’s products in
relation to advertising, sponsorships and
campaigns.
Royal Unibrew also has a responsibility for preventing any abuse problems
among its employees. In Denmark
and Finland, a number of key individuals across the organisation have been
trained in supporting colleagues with a
potential over-consumption of alcohol/
intoxicants, including encouraging treatment, and in helping their colleagues get
back to work again as easily as possible
following treatment.

As an element in Royal Unibrew’s responsibility with respect to reducing the
consumption of soft drinks containing
sugar, efforts are continuously directed
at promoting calorie-reduced products
such as Nikoline with 30% less sugar
or sugar-free alternatives such as Jaffa
Light, Faxe Kondi Free, Pepsi Next and
Pepsi Max and a generally increasing
range of water products.

The preventive measures at the breweries in 2015 included the following:

Baltic countries
• In the Baltic countries working conditions at the distribution warehouses
were considerably improved. Palletisation and order picking are now carried out far more efficiently and safely
than previously by means of safe and
ergonomic lifting equipment.

Occupational health & safety

Finland
• Hartwall’s alcohol awareness policy
as well as equal opportunity guidelines
were updated and implemented.
• Hartwall implemented a no-smoking
policy in order to further improve and
support its employees’ well-being and
working capacity.
• Hartwall registers near-accidents currently with a view to observing, discussing and supporting safe behaviour.

Royal Unibrew must be a safe and
healthy place to work for its employees,
and Royal Unibrew’s health policy therefore focuses on preventive measures to
avoid employees being worn out and in-

Royal Unibrew’s increased focus on occupational accidents has also resulted
in greater openness when it comes to
reporting injuries. Consequently, the

Competence development
Royal Unibrew works in a targeted and
structured manner to develop employee
competences. These efforts are further
described in the section ”Organisation
and Employees”.

54

ANNUAL REPORT 2015

R O YA L U N I B R E W

total number of registered accidents increased to a higher level in 2015 than in
2014; however, the number is still lower
than in the years before 2014. Obviously,
this is not an acceptable development,
but it does, however, probably to some
extent reflect the great focus on the
area. Significant efforts will be directed at preventing occupational accidents
also going forward.

en and PepsiCo. Moreover, applicable
HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical
Control Points) rules have been implemented.

Selected targets for 2016
• It remains our vision to reduce the
number of occupational accidents to
zero and to continue the focused safety
efforts in all parts of our business.
• In Denmark all employees at the Albani brewery must participate in a
course on behavioural safety, reporting of near-accidents will continue and
the ambassador role must be profiled
at all locations.
• The Danish safety groups will also in
2016 organise a joint health & safety
discussion as well as a joint health &
safety day.
• Action plans relating to workplace
assessment will be completed and
implemented.
• In Finland there is a target of reducing
the number of occupational accidents
by 10% in 2016, eg through monthly
safety checks in production areas and
by continuously following up on the
agreed measures.

Food safety and quality
Royal Unibrew’s breweries have certification under the international standards.
The efforts within quality and food safety
also comprise requirements from customers and licensors, including Heinek-

BREWERY

CERTIFICATION

• Continuation of the efforts relating to
quality assurance of the Company’s
quality analyses according to Heineken standards, including implementation of the laboratory standard at the
Albani brewery.

Cido,
Latvia

ISO22000

Environment

Lacplesis,
Latvia

ISO22000

Kalnapilis,
Lithuania

ISO22000

Faxe,
Denmark

FSSC22000, ISO9001,
ISO14001

Albani,
Denmark

FSSC22000, ISO9001,
ISO14001

Lahti,
Finland

FSSC22000, ISO9001,
ISO14001, OHSAS 18001

Karijoki,
Finland

FSSC22000, ISO9001,
ISO14001, OHSAS 18001

The focus on and interest in food safety
and quality among consumers, customers and the media are on the increase,
which is also reflected in Royal Unibrew’s
efforts in the area. Among other things,
a customer-specific quality standard for
analysis work at the laboratories in Faxe
was introduced in 2015.

Selected targets for 2016
• FSSC22000 certification of the Cido
brewery is expected during 2016.

ENERGY CONSUMPTION

WATER CONSUMPTION
(Hectorliter per produced hectoliter)

125

5

100

4

75

3

50

2

25

1
0
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Our efforts to reduce the environmental
footprint of our production will continue,
primarily targeted at:
• Reduction of energy consumption.
• Reduction of water consumption and
of waste water discharge.
• Reduction of wastage of raw materials
and semi-manufactured products.
• Waste recycling and reduction of resource consumption.
• CO2-neutral production of selected
products.

Energy
Royal Unibrew assesses on a current
basis how most appropriately to take
responsibility for identifying and preventing risks relating to food safety and
quality and how to communicate this.
The priorities set are aligned with those
of industry associations and Royal Unibrew’s licensors.

(Mega Joules per produced hectoliter)

0

Royal Unibrew has always worked determinedly to limit the environmental impacts of the Company’s production. As a
result, Royal Unibrew is today among the
industry’s front-runners, when it comes to
resource-efficient beverage production.

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

In 2015 energy consumption developed
satisfactorily for Royal Unibrew as a
whole. Energy consumption per unit
produced decreased by 2.4% to 84.6 MJ/
hl. The reduced consumption is the resulting effect of measures implemented
in 2015, especially at the Lahti brewery
in Finland and the Kalnapilis brewery in
Lithuania, as well as of a number of new
measures introduced in 2015.
At the Faxe brewery replacement of all
light sources with LED lights was commenced, and the wort separation process was changed to achieve savings
in terms of heating and cooling. Both of
these measures resulted in energy savings, but as there was a simultaneous
opposite effect from the packaging mix,
energy consumption per unit produced
showed a small increase on a total basis.
In the Baltic countries the installation of
a new energy-efficient cooling system
reduced the energy consumption of the
system by 11% as compared to 2014.

ROYA L U N I B R E W

At the Hartwall brewery in Finland a new
unit for filling beer on kegs was established which consumes less energy, beer
filtration units were replaced by more
modern and energy-efficient units and
energy-optimisation of the production of
PET bottles was implemented. Moreover,
an electricity-saving project of replacing 10,000 light sources with LED lights
continued.
Selected targets for 2016
2015 was to a certain extent affected
by preparation for future, major investments in energy-conserving measures
which will be implemented in 2016.
These include:
• In Denmark the Faxe brewery will
complete two initiatives under the
”Green Industrial Symbiosis” project one concerning energy sharing among
enterprises in Faxe and another concerning the use of non-drinking water.
• In the Baltic countries a hot-air mixer
will be installed at the warehouses to
reduce gas consumption for heating
purposes.
• The Baltic countries have a target of
increasing order size by 10% on average to further increase fuel efficiency.
• The Finnish Lahti brewery must implement several energy-saving projects.
• Investment funds have been allocated
to implementing minor energy projects with a view to achieving continuous reduction of energy and resource
consumption.

Water consumption and
waste water discharge
Water is an important constituent of
Royal Unibrew’s production, and we are
therefore always on the lookout for new
methods to reduce our water consumption. For our business as a whole, water consumption in 2015 was marginally
lower than in 2014.
This was achieved through, among other measures, improved control of the
crate washer at the Faxe brewery in
Denmark as well as optimisation of the
CIP processes in Finland (CIP: Cleaning
In Place) with a view to reducing the use
of chemicals in water. Total water con-

sumption and waste water discharge (m3
per hectolitre produced) were reduced
by 1% in 2015 (in Finland 3%).

Recycling and reduction of
consumption of resources
All production sites have strong, continuous focus on consumption, including
recycling, of raw materials and other
resources. Efforts are made to ensure
the best possible utilisation of the raw
materials and resources used in order
to avoid unnecessary wastage. This applies to production as well as to the other
parts of the supply chain.
Initiatives in 2015 included:
• In 2015 the replacement of the distribution vehicles in Denmark with new
vehicles complying with the Euro 6
requirements (the most eco-friendly
lorries in the market) continued. This
replacement is expected to continue in
future years. The replacement implies
savings in terms of diesel oil consumption and represents future-proofing in
relation to the increasingly stringent
environmental requirements expected
in Denmark.
• In Finland the beer filtration units
were replaced by modern membrane
filtration technology.
• In Latvia the rolling stock was upgraded, which reduces CO2 emissions.
• In the Baltic countries the order size
of direct deliveries was increased by
4% in Lithuania and by 2% in Latvia resulting in lower fuel consumption per
hectolitre distributed.
• In Latvia wood pallets are currently being replaced by plastic pallets
which are of a better quality and have
a longer life cycle.
Selected for 2016
• All production sites will in 2016 continue
working at identifying and implementing environmental improvement measures. Targets and improvements will be
realised locally at the production sites
to ensure the most optimum implementation. Initiatives are focused on:
– Optimum utilisation of raw materials
– Minimisation of wastage from all
process levels

ANNUAL REPORT 2015

55

– Energy and water consumption reductions
– Increased rate of waste recycling
– Increased utilisation of transport
capacity
• Indirect environmental impacts will be
sought reduced through choice of raw
materials, eg by using thinner plastic
materials for packaging purposes.
• Continuous efforts are directed at reducing consumption of materials for
glass bottles, cans and plastic containers.
• In the Baltic countries investments are
made in equipment for recycling heat
from compressors. This heat may be
used for heating of buildings, thus resulting in reduced gas consumption.

CO2 neutral production
of selected products
Back in 2012 the carbon footprint of the
Egekilde products was mapped throughout the chain from raw materials to delivery to Royal Unibrew’s customers, and
the Egekilde brand was launched as the
first Danish CO2 neutral mineral water
product.
CO2 neutrality is an ongoing process
achieved by investing in environmentally sound energy through UN-certified
carbon credits and by means of plastic
containing up to 50% recycled material.
This knowledge is also applied generally
in making continuous efforts directed at
reducing energy and resource consumption with suppliers and within production
and logistics. Our efforts in this area
are continuously optimised in cooperation with suppliers and other business
partners.
CO2 neutrality contributed towards
Egekilde becoming the market leader in
2015. Egekilde’s CO2 neutrality provides
consumers with a climate-friendly purchasing option.
Selected targets for 2016
• Updating of carbon footprint of packaging, containers and resources in the
Egekilde production.

