CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | 14

Corporate Governance

Statutory statement on corporatesocial responsibilityPOLICYSPEAS believes that a company's long-term successand its compliance with as well as ongoing adaptationto ethical and environmental market norms are positivelyinterrelated.SPEAS has only indirect influence on the individualprivate equity funds' choice of companies in which toinvest. However, the Company's basic premise is thatcompanies comply with laws and rules determined bynational authorities on the markets in which the companyoperates as well as with internationally adoptednorms concerning human rights and labour standards.The Company has not drawn up specific policies onhuman rights or environmental impact.IMPLEMENTATIONSPEAS regularly assesses (i) whether a private equitycompany has adopted a code of practice or equivalenton responsible investment, (ii) to which extent a privateequity company considers other relevant ethicaland environmental issues prior to making an investment,(iii) how relevant ethical and environmentalissues are addressed by the portfolio companies duringthe holding period, and (iv) the ongoing reportingto the investors regarding status and development ofsame.If a private equity company has not adopted a recognisedcode of practice on responsible investment orimplemented a satisfactory policy in this regard, SPEASwill enter into a dialogue with the private equity companywith a view to including relevant ethical andenvironmental issues in the investment process.PERFORMANCEOn all investment commitments made within the lastfive financial years, SPEAS has received letters of intentfrom the private equity funds in question to integratecodes of practice on responsible investment intotheir investment processes and implement these intheir portfolio companies. In our dialogue with theprivate equity funds and in ongoing reporting, SPEAShas not recognised any breach of these commitments.In 2014, yet another private equity company inSPEAS's portfolio adopted the United Nations' Principlesfor Responsible Investments, which have nowbeen endorsed by three of the private equity companieswith which SPEAS cooperates.As SPEAS does not invest directly in portfolio companies,but only wields indirect influence through theprivate equity funds, we do not find it possible to furtherevaluate any results achieved or expectations offuture achievement.

Targets for gender representationThe target of the Board of Directors of ScandinavianPrivate Equity A/S is to have at least one female boardmember before end-2017.However, it will not be relevant to consider femaleboard members until the Board of Directors has to bewidened or board members be replaced, at the earliest.But there are no plans in this regard in light of,among other things, the Company's distribution policyaccording to which no new investment commitmentswill be made.

SCANDINAVIAN PRIVATE EQUITY A/S ! ANNUAL REPORT 2014/15

