Corporate social responsibility
Corporate social responsibility
SP Group acknowledges the Group’s responsibility to contribute to a sustainable development, and SP Group recognises the correlation between
acting responsibly on the one hand and increasing the Group’s earnings
and growth on the other.
The basis of SP Group’s work with social responsibility is the UN Global
Compact – the ten principles of human rights, employee rights, environment and anti-corruption according to which the UN has listed guidelines for companies’ work to ensure a more sustainable development. SP
Group follows the 10 principles set out in the UN Global Compact and
gives an account of the four areas in the following.
At the beginning of 2012, SP Group’s largest subsidiary, SP Moulding A/S,
joined the Global Compact.

Environment and climate
In accordance with the UN Global Compact, SP Group takes initiatives to
promote greater environmental responsibility and reduce the Group’s impact on the internal and external environment, and SP Group also seeks
to promote the use of more environmentally friendly technologies and
materials.
It is SP Group’s strategy that all production companies must implement a
certifiable environmental management system which ensures:
• use of environment-friendly products in the production and development processes
• minimisation of waste and refuse as well as resource consumption
• recycling of materials and products to the widest extent possible
• a satisfactory working environment for the employees, prioritising
safety and environmental impacts
With the current energy and raw material prices and the increasing waste
disposal expenses, it is financially sound to reduce energy and raw material consumption and reduce the waste percentage. Therefore, all plants
focus on these efforts. SP Moulding’s, and Ulstrup Plast’s factories have
introduced decentralised grinders on all machines to replace the central
grinders. This ensures that the remaining material from the production of
each component is grinded immediately and led down a closed system
together with the plastic material for the next component. Gibo Plast
and SP Medical use central grinders to ensure reuse of surplus material i other products. In this way, more of the plastic material can be put
into use. Tinby and Ergomat have also improved their processes so that
materials are now fed more efficiently, which increases the rate of use
and reduces waste.

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2015 (average)
12
0

115

In the period 2013-2015, SP Group carried out tests using recycled plastics for selected products (Plastic Wood Compound). The tests are expected to result in commercial production during 2016. Thus, SP Group
will contribute to dramatically reduce not only its own, but also others’
environmental impact. The goal is to replace wood from rain forests with
plastics from sorted household waste.
The most considerable impact on the environment occurs when the entities in the SP Group consume energy (particularly power) and raw materials during production and divert waste from production. The direct CO2
emission from the group entities is limited, but CO2 indirectly impacts
the environment when power plants produce power and when products
are transported from SP Group. SP Group has no direct impact on the
power plants’ energy production, but a substantial part of the power is
purchased in Denmark from plants producing power from renewable
energy, primarily wind turbines. In respect of transportation, SP Group
selects partners with modern and environmentally friendly equipment.
Plastics produced and used with care have a positive impact on the environment. In environmental life cycle analyses, plastics generally rank
higher than most alternative materials. Therefore, increased use of plastics will reduce the total impact on the environment.
Acid gasses, however, are produced during production of fluoroplastic
coatings, but they are removed in a flue gas scrubber before being led
out through the chimney and are therefore not a nuisance to the surroundings. The use of fluoroplastic coatings is very beneficiary to the
environment in many respects. They are, for example, used as corrosion
protection in flue gas purifying plants at coal-fired power plants to avoid
acid rainwater. At the same time, coatings of surfaces with fluoroplastics
generate considerable savings on cleaning materials and solvents as well
as water.
Generally, plastics are lighter than metal, and the lower weight can be
used to increase the capacity of transport equipment and, thus, reduce
fuel consumption, thus benefiting the environment. Obvious examples
include rolling stock such as agricultural machinery, tractors, combine
harvesters, buses and cars where the exterior parts can be manufactured

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2014 (average)

34
13

112

529

612

Every month, SP Group measures a number of key figures relating to consumption of energy, heating, water and raw materials in all its factories.
The measurement results are used for internal benchmarking and for
wide implementation of initiatives which, at some plants, have proved to
lower resource consumption. If the Danish indirect tax system is changed,
a greater part of the excess waste heat can be used for heating. During
the year, substantial amounts were invested in energy-saving equipment.

10
26 2

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Latvia
Poland
Slovakia
England
Netherlands
China
Americas

116

38

1

470

580
27

8
2

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Latvia
Poland
England
Netherlands
China
Americas

Management’s review / SP Group 33

in plastic instead of metal, and the plastic lasts for many years – even
when used outdoors – without corroding.
The unique insulation properties of polyurethane are used to reduce
waste of heat, for example, and to ensure environmentally friendly and
efficient district ventilating systems.
Health and safety have been taken into account in the production processes at the individual plants. SP Group believes it complies with all current environmental regulations and that no enforcement orders remain
unsolved anywhere in production. SP Group continually focuses on reducing the effects of the Group’s activities on the climate by reducing the
water, electricity and heating consumption and reducing CO2 emissions
and optimising energy consumption. The goal is to create value for our
customers, employees and the local communities in which we operate.
A significant number of SP Group’s products (accounting for 25.5% of
revenue) are sold to the cleantech industry, which uses the products for:
• reduction of energy consumption
• production of alternative energy
• purification of smoke from coal-fired power plants and petrochemical
plants.

Employees
On average, SP Group’s staff outside Denmark increased by approx. 17.6%
to 923 employees in 2015. The number of employees in Denmark decreased from 470 to 529. Globally, SP Group’s staff increased from 1,255
at the beginning of the year to 1,498 at year-end. On average, there were
1,452 employees in SP Group in 2015. At year-end, 36.0% of the staff was
employed in Denmark, and 64.0% was employed outside Denmark. The
year saw a shift of approx. 1.7 percentage points as part of the increased
internationalisation of the business. Going forward, growth is expected
to take place primarily in Eastern Europe, Asia and USA.
SP Group adheres to the principles of the International Labor Organisation’s convention and the UN Declaration on Human Rights (UNDHR).
This means that the Group will not tolerate child labour or forced labour,
will not employ minors and that any kind of discrimination in working
and employment conditions is prohibited. SP Group solely recruits, appoints and promotes employees on the basis of their qualifications and
experience. The employees have the right to freely unionise, express their
opinions and participate in or elect people to participate in collective
bodies. Employees of the group entities appoint representatives for joint
consultation committees and working environment committees where
they meet with local management. At the production units in Poland and
China, systems have been established allowing the employees to appoint
spokesmen for negotiations with management.

Distribution of employees (average) 2011-2015

The Group has not witnessed any violation of human rights.
In Denmark, wages and salaries and working conditions are determined
in collective agreements resulting from local negotiations. In Poland and
China, the employees’ conditions and rights are primarily laid down in
legislation, codes and regulations. As an employer, SP Group observes,
as a minimum, national legislation and collective agreements as well as
rules governing working hours, etc. Moreover, SP Group seeks to offer
employees additional benefits.
In recent years, SP Group has closed down a number of Danish plants
and discharged employees. Such measures are regrettable but necessary to strengthen competitiveness. In connection with comprehensive
dismissals, SP Group complies with the rules of notice and negotiations
with employees, but SP Group also seeks to ease the consequences for
the affected employees by taking extra measures.
Furthermore, SP Group seeks to improve the employees’ qualifications
through supplementary training and continuing education. The goal is
to improve the qualifications of the employees to enable them to handle
different tasks, which increases production flexibility and provides varied
workdays for the individual employee. SP Group also applies the systematic roll-out of Lean processes to the plants to enable the employees to
influence their own working situation as well as processes and workflow.
The Board of Directors has set up a goal for the ratio of the underrepresented gender among board members elected by the company in general
meeting of 20% by 2017. The goal has been set up with a time frame of
three years, and at year-end, the share of women on the Board of Directors was 0%. No new members were elected for the Board of Directors
in 2015.
The Board of Directors of SP Group A/S has prepared a policy in order to
increase the ratio of the underrepresented gender at all levels of management and to promote diversity in general. The goal is still to fill managerial
posts based on the qualifications required, but to promote diversity when
possible. The long-term goal is for the Company to reflect society and,
in particular, the Company’s customers, both in terms of gender and
in terms of nationality and ethnicity. This reflection of society should
contribute positively to the Company as an attractive company for both
customers and current and future employees so that the Company will
be able to fulfil its business goals in the long term. At year-end, the ratio
of women in the general management (Executive Board and management team) was 21%. Reference is made the overview on page 29. SP
Group aims to ensure that at least one male and one female candidate
are among the top three candidates for new leadership positions.

Distribution of employees abroad (average) 2011-2015

1,500

70

1,200

60

900

50

600

40

300

30

0

Plastic
2011

34 SP Group

2012

Coatings
2013

Other areas
2014

2015

20

2011

2012

2013

2014

Employees abroad – %

2015

Globally, SP Group will support and comply with international human
rights and seek to remedy any violations of these rights. In 2015, SP
Group was not involved in or experienced violations of human rights in
the Group or at sub-suppliers.

Anti-corruption
SP Group does not engage in corruption or bribery. Unfortunately, we
are often met with requests for secret commission or the like, which
we naturally turn down.

Continued CSR efforts
SP Group complies with the ten principles of the
UN Global Compact in word and action and will
sign the Global Compact charter. At the beginning of 2012, SP Group’s largest subsidiary, SP
Moulding A/S, joined the Global Compact. The
Group will still focus on further promotion of the
use of environmentally friendly technologies and
materials and seek to disseminate knowledge of
the unique properties of plastics.
At present, SP Group has no plans to perform
extensive systematic CSR control at the Group’s
suppliers of material, as the majority of these
are large, well-reputed international groups
that give a detailed account of their CSR efforts in information material made available to
the public. SP Group performs CSR control at
the Group’s mould suppliers.

Ergomat’s innovative new product incorporated LED technology into the Deluxe family of
ergonomic mats has been very well received in
by customers, particularly in the automotive and
aviation sector where the up-lighting provided
by this solution improves assembly efficiency,
Quality Assurance and maintenance and repair
services.

Management’s review / SP Group 35

