Sydbank’s CSR Report for 2015

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2015

1

CSR Report for 2015

Preface

In 2015 Sydbank increased its loans and advances thereby mak-

Responsible conduct in everyday life and sound business practices

ing it easier for healthy Danish businesses to finance their invest-

go hand in hand. Consequently Sydbank follows the international

ments. Society needs loans and credit facilities which Sydbank

guidelines on corporate social responsibility and we will act

provides on an informed and well-founded basis.

responsibly at all times towards our clients, society and our
employees.

In terms of energy Sydbank is working to reduce its energy consumption and CO2 emissions. In 2015 the Bank’s energy con-

Sydbank’s CSR policy was updated and approved by the Board of

sumption for its IT servers was reduced significantly. Sydbank

Directors in 2015. On a day-to-day basis Sydbank’s social respon-

expects to be able to install a large solar panel installation in con-

sibility is overseen by the Group Executive Management and as a

nection with the head office in Aabenraa in 2016.

result its social responsibility – as other business-related considerations – is included in major strategic business decisions.

Sydbank believes in the value of diversity among employees,
including equal gender distribution. This contributes to a better

Responsibility

working environment. Sydbank will promote the opportunities for

In 2015 a thorough analysis was carried out of Sydbank’s social

women and men to have equal access to management positions.

responsibility basis against the backdrop of applicable internationally recognised principles. The overall conclusion of Sydbank’s

Sydbank sees its social responsibility as the sum of its activities

social responsibility basis is that many actions as regards acting

and consequently Sydbank contributes in a multitude of ways.

responsibly are implemented on the basis of a principle of common sense. As a result of the analysis work has been initiated to

Karen Frøsig, CEO

ensure that CSR efforts are formalised and anchored in management and that a formal reporting structure is created.
In the investment area Sydbank collaborates with GES Investment
Services (GES) to ensure that investments made by Sydbank
comply with the principles for responsible investment and incorporate ESG issues. In 2015 Sydbank acquired Sydinvest
Administration, which already managed the collaboration with
GES.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2015

2

CSR Report for 2015

This statutory CSR report for Sydbank A/S is part of the 2015

Sydbank exercises its social responsibility in the investment area

Annual Report and covers the accounting period from 1 January

primarily by the way in which the assets of the various portfolios

2015 to 31 December 2015.

managed by Sydbank are invested. When planning the management of these assets, we find it important that the companies

Sydbank is a relationship bank founded on long-standing, close

invested in comply with the UN Principles for Responsible

customer relationship, thanks to the skills of its employees.

Investment (UN PRI). This entails for instance:

Honesty is a prerequisite to trust in each other and one’s busi-

•	that environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG)

ness relations. As stated in Sydbank’s client policy, we say things
the way they are, and this also applies to Sydbank’s CSR efforts.

issues are incorporated in investment decisions
•	that we apply a commitment approach in relation to influencing
companies invested in that do not fully live up to our expecta-

Embedding corporate social responsibility

tions regarding ESG issues.

Sydbank’s CSR policy was updated and approved by the Board of
Directors in 2015. On a day-to-day basis Sydbank’s social respon-

Collaboration with GES

sibility is overseen by the Group Executive Management and as a

To ensure that investments made by Sydbank comply with the

result its social responsibility – as other business-related consid-

principles for responsible investment and incorporate ESG issues,

erations – is included in major strategic business decisions.

Sydbank has engaged the services of GES Investment Services
(GES). The collaboration involves the following:

Focus areas in 2015

•	Twice a year GES screens the investments of Sydbank’s pooled

In 2015 an analysis was carried out of Sydbank’s social responsi-

plans that invest in equities and corporate bonds from mature

bility basis against the backdrop of applicable internationally rec-

markets. As a result of the screenings in 2015 GES has actively

ognised principles: the UN Principles for Responsible Investment,

engaged with 22 companies, focusing on companies that have

signed by Sydbank in 2010 and the UN Global Compact, which

violated widely accepted international conventions and norms

Sydbank has not signed.

concerning environmental and social issues.
•	Twice a year GES performs an extended screening of the invest-

The overall conclusion of the analysis of Sydbank’s social respon-

ments of Sydbank’s pooled plans that invest in equities from

sibility basis is that many actions as regards acting responsibly

emerging markets. This screening is identical to the screening

are implemented based on common sense. What remains is to

for the mature markets but it also involves a screening of

ensure that CSR efforts are formalised and anchored in manage-

investments in weapons as well as a rating of businesses’ expo-

ment and that a formal reporting structure is created. This work

sure to ESG issues and their readiness to tackle problems in this

has been initiated on the basis of the analysis.

context. During 2015 this involved in 82 visits and 25 conference calls with businesses in Africa, the Middle East, the Far

Economy

East and Latin America. As a result GES has ongoing engage-

Sydbank has signed the UN Principles for Responsible Investment

ment cases involving a total of 140 companies from emerging

(UN PRI) and has thereby made a commitment to incorporate

markets.

environment, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues when
selecting equities and corporate bonds in which Sydbank invests.

In 2015 Sydbank acquired Sydinvest Administration, which managed the collaboration with GES.

In line with its fundamental values, Sydbank does not wish to
invest in companies that violate widely accepted international

Exclusion from portfolios

conventions and norms as formulated in for instance the UN

GES has already excluded a number of companies that have

Global Compact concerning businesses’ positions on human

activities within nuclear weapons, land mines and cluster bombs.

rights, labour rights, environmental issues and anti-corruption.

In addition there may be companies where the engagement
approach proves to be unproductive.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2015

3

CSR Report for 2015

Our activities concerning responsible investment are based on

People

influencing companies through dialogue. Nevertheless companies

Sydbank supports the UN Guiding Principles on Business and

may be excluded from the investment universe that portfolios

Human Rights.

managed by Sydbank may invest in.
A meticulous risk assessment of Sydbank’s human rights risk was
Credit

conducted in 2015, also in relation to the internationally recog-

Sydbank’s credit activities must be consistent with the Bank’s

nised principles contained in the UN Guiding Principles on

business model and the risk profile chosen. Society needs loans

Business and Human Rights, which Sydbank backs.

and credit facilities which Sydbank provides on an informed and
well-founded basis. Concrete action plans are made as regards

The overall conclusion of the risk assessment of Sydbank’s

financial commitments that clients are unable to honour.

human rights risk is that Sydbank has only a limited risk of having
a negative impact on human rights related to the operation of its

As stated in its CSR policy and credit policy, Sydbank does not

own business. The greatest risk is within equal rights and

wish to take part in financial transactions where the motives or

anti-discrimination as regards recruitment and promotion.

business models may be called into question regardless of
whether they are believed to be legal. Whether Sydbank decides

Women in management

not to take part in financial transactions depends on an assess-

Sydbank believes in the value of diversity among employees,

ment in each situation.

including equal gender distribution. This contributes to a better
working environment. Sydbank will promote the opportunities for

Climate and environment

women and men to have equal access to management positions.

Sydbank is working to reduce its energy consumption and CO2
emissions. Detailed monitoring of energy consumed has been

Sydbank’s objective is that women will make up 25% of the top

implemented on an ongoing basis at all Sydbank’s premises. By

management (members of the Board of Directors elected by the

monitoring the individual responsible for each of the addresses

general meeting), corresponding to at least two members, before

monitored is able to follow closely the current consumption of

2019.

heat, water and electricity. Alarms have been installed at every
location that will detect any abnormal consumption.

The target was not achieved in 2015 as no board members were
replaced during the year. Consequently there are no women

In 2015 Sydbank worked on energy optimisation as regards the

members elected by the general meeting on Sydbank’s Board of

environment surrounding the Bank’s IT servers. As a result the

Directors.

energy requirement for cooling, ventilation and UPS equipment
has dropped significantly.

Sydbank’s policy is that management positions are filled by the
best candidates and also that the qualifications of talented

By replacing older equipment and through continuous monitor-

women are enhanced. When recruiting people for management

ing, Sydbank further reduced its electricity consumption (meas-

positions Sydbank strives to the extent possible to ensure that

ured in kWh/m2) in the Bank’s branches in 2015.

both genders are represented among the final three candidates.

In 2015 Sydbank applied to erect a household wind turbine in

The share of women in management positions at Sydbank is

connection with a warehouse. However the application resulted

31%. 45% of branch managers are women. As a result the per-

in objections from neighbours and it has therefore been with-

centage is unchanged compared to 2014.

drawn.
Sydbank has filed an application for permission to install a large
solar panel installation in connection with the head office in
Aabenraa and expects to be able to do so in 2016.
SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2015

4

CSR Report for 2015

Active contribution to society through the Bank’s funds
Number of
donations

439
Total amount donated

6.0 DKKm

Smallest donation
(DKK)

1,500

Largest donation (DKK)

600,000

Working environment inspections

Sponsorships

The Danish Working Environment Authority paid 15 inspection

Sydbank takes pride in being actively involved in local association

visits to Sydbank in 2015. 14 of the visits resulted in a green

activities and sports activities in the entire market area. A large

Smiley and one visit resulted in a yellow Smiley.

number of sponsorships to enhance an active leisure life and cultural life are nurtured locally as well as regionally.

Safety
As in the industry in general Sydbank has witnessed a decline in

Furthermore Sydbank makes donations to charitable organisa-

the number of robberies. In 2015 one robbery took place at a

tions operating in the poorest areas of the world. Through

Sydbank branch.

WAWCAS (Women at Work, Children at School) Sydbank supports efforts to help Nepalese women make a living and send

Sydbank makes an active contribution to reduce financial crime

their children to school.

and fraud. In 2014 Sydbank introduced a new and improved system for reporting money laundering and the number of cases

Funds

reported by Sydbank corresponds to the Bank’s market share. In

Sydbank Fonden and Sydbank Sønderjyllands Fond support a

2014 all customer-facing employees attended a course on

wide range of cultural and general interest activities in Denmark

anti-money laundering rules.

and South Schleswig. The amount donated totals DKK 6,048m to
915 applicants.

In 2014 Sydbank introduced a whistleblower scheme managed by
the Bank’s Compliance department.

In addition Sydbank awarded 60 travel grants of DKK 10,000 to
young students in 2015.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2015

5

