ANNUAL
REPORT
2015

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

Corporate Social Responsibility
UIE:
Since its foundation, UIE has invested in the agroindustrial sector, particularly palm oil. As UIE is a holding
company, it has not developed its own CSR policies,
including human rights and environ mental impacts.
However, as it invests in compan ies that depend largely
on natural resources, it h igh ly supports UP and MSAB
to operate in an eth ical and professional man ner, thus
encouraging them to:

An overview of the CSR work and com m itments of UP are
illustrated below. MSAB is not included, as it is a holding
company with shares in six publicly listed compan ies that
each have their own CSR policy. For further in formation
about the issues relevant for each company, please see
the compan ies’ an nual reports, sustainability reports and
their websites.

• protect the environ ment and natural resources by
applying environ mentally responsible production
methods;
• secure the well-being of employees by providing good
and safe working conditions; and
• uphold human rights and be responsible members of
the com mun ities that they are part of.

In UP there are several thousand barn owls which regulate the population of rodents. Barn owls predate on rats. Barn owls also keep the usage of
rodenticides to a bare minimum.

34

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

ANNUAL
REPORT
2015

UP:
UP’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy focuses on
continuous care, com m itment and responsibility towards
its employees, the environ ment, the com mun ity and the
marketplace in wh ich it operates. UP remains com m itted
to conducting business in a man ner that ach ieves
sustainable growth wh ilst maintain ing a h igh degree of
social and environ mental responsibility.

and motivation by providing continuous train ing and
supervision.

A vital part of UP’s CSR Policy is its com m itment to the
Principles and Criteria of the Roundtable on Sustainable
Palm oil (“RSPO ”). The Company has for several years
been leading the way toward sustainable palm oil
production. UP was one of the in itial palm plantation
signatories to the RSPO in 2004 and the fi rst Company to
ach ieve re- certification of the RSPO, valid from 2014 and
five years ahead. UP takes pride in being recogn ized as
a certified producer of sustainable palm oil; ever since it
became the world’s fi rst producer of certified sustainable
palm oil in August 2008 (after the oil palm plantations
in Malaysia were successfully certified in accordance with
the RSPO ), it has introduced additional environ mental
practices of h igher standards. In 2016, UP will take the
sustainability certification to a h igher level, th rough
the “RSPO N EXT”, wh ich is a voluntary add- on to the
existing Principles & Criteria for sustainable grown palm
oil dedicated to furthering the fight against deforestation
and gas em issions from palm oil production. The “RSPO
N EXT” certification is the world’s strictest for any
agricultural crop but also amongst the most credible.

UP is also com m itted to maintain ing a safe and healthy
workplace for all employees. The Company continues
to provide a number of social welfare in itiatives to
its employees and their fam ilies as well as to the local
com mun ities by securing ch ild care, primary schools,
well- equipped hospitals and health clin ics, places of
worsh ip for employees, bus subsidies for school ch ildren,
a bakery and a sen ior citizen home.

During the launch of The Malaysian Chapter of the UN
Sustainable Development Solutions Network (“UNSDSN”), UP was cited as one of the foremost compan ies
in developing sustainable solutions in Malaysia. In the
UN-SDSN Malaysia Chapter, UP was identified as a
“Business with a soul”, acknowledging the Company
as a frontrun ner in econom ic, environ mental and social
sustainability.

UP supports diversity in a working environ ment where
there is mutual trust and respect and where employees
feel encouraged and responsible for the success of the
company.

Community:
UP strives to be a trusted corporate citizen and to fulfi ll its
responsibilities to the societies and local com mun ities in
wh ich it operates and thus is an integral part of.
UP believes in building good relationsh ips with the
employees and their fam ilies, and promotes socioeconom ic
policies and progress in the surrounding com mun ities.
Apart from improving welfare standards, ensuring
h igh standard educational facilities, providing medical
care and housing facilities, supporting investments in
in frastructure projects as well as offering development
activities, the Company encourages com mun ities to
participate in sporting and social activities by providing
facilities such as football fields, com mun ity halls,
badm inton courts etc. The sporting events en hance
friendsh ip and help to create a strong sense of com mun ity
spirit.

Employees:

UP has taken the in itiative to start up Smallholders’ Field
Day, where farmers from local districts in Malaysia are
invited to the plantation to get a better understanding of
good agricultural practices, sustainability in itiatives and
environ mental protection. They are given train ing in safe
handling of pesticides, optimal harvesting procedures
and fertilizer application.

The success and ach ievements of UP are h igh ly correlated
with its employees. The employees are core assets of UP
and human capital management is considered an integral
and vital part of its operations. UP focuses on developing
and en hancing each individual’s skills, capabilities

At its Indonesian Plantations, UP is actively involved
with a govern ment project known as the Plasma Scheme
designed to assist smallholders to become independent
plantation growers. Under the Plasma Scheme, UP’s role
is to help local smallholders in supplying the necessary

UP continuously aims to align business values, purposes
and strategy based on the following CSR principles
grouped into four main areas:

35

ANNUAL
REPORT
2015

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

UP has nine kindergartens on its properties that are maintained by the Company. It is important for UP to provide its employees with modern kindergarten facilities in order to be able to support education and childcare for the employees’ children.

resources (including the land being developed), train ing
in developing oil palm plantations, wh ich includes
environ mentally responsible land clearing and cultivation
as well as econom ic aid. O nce the land has been developed
and managed by UP for one cycle, it is then handed over
to the smallholder for self-management. The objective is
to provide more opportun ities for the smallholders and
help alleviate poverty.
Marketplace:
UP is com m itted to providing h igh quality products
and services to customers worldwide th rough dedicated
employees and advanced tech nology. UP aims at
continuous improvement and works towards building
long-term relationsh ips with all stakeholders.
Environment:
UP strives to be recogn ised as a leader in sustainable
agricultural practices, respecting the balance between

36

economy and ecology. UP is com m itted to continuously
reducing the environ mental impact of its operations by
improving procedures, m in im izing waste and overall
carbon footprint as well as implementing new and
greener tech nologies.
UP is increasingly com m itted to the protection of
biodiversity, avoidance of h igh carbon stock land use
and the protection of wildlife. New frameworks such as
the H igh Carbon Stock (“HCS”) Assessment have been
implemented to evaluate the change in Carbon Stock and
to develop a detailed Sustainability Plan for the landscape.
UP requested Deameter Consulting to perform a HCS
assessment in O ctober 2014 in accordance with RSPO ’s
New Planting Procedure with the objective to produce a
land use map indicating wh ich areas could be developed
for Plasma plantations and wh ich areas ideally should be
set aside for conservation. The fi nal results are expected
to be completed in start 2016, incorporating social and
environ mental considerations in line with the RSPO ’s
N PP guidelines.

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

Sign ificant investments have also been made in
promoting green energy starting with the fully integrated
biomass reciprocating boiler and the construction of four
biogas plants. These projects have helped sign ificantly to
reduce em issions of CO2 by 70% and CH4 by 80% at the
operating un its.
The fi fth and fi nal biogas plant is scheduled to be
established in 2017, wh ich will result in all the m ills
having Methane capture facilities in the form of biogas
plants, wh ich is part of a gratifying accomplish ment.
In 2015 and early 2016, a comprehensive update to the Life
Cycle Assessment (“LCA”) was undertaken, providing
a clear overview of the development in the Company’s
efforts to reduce its carbon footprint as well as identifying
areas for further improvements. UP continues to remain
a frontrun ner in terms of implementing green house gas
reducing projects with in the Plantation Industry.
The LCA report e.g. shows that the green energy
investments have helped reduce the an nual em issions of
green house gasses by at least 125,000 MT CO2 (eq). The
company has thus met its target of reducing the “Carbon
Footprint” per ton ne of refi ned palm oil produced by
33% in 2014 when compared to pre-2005 levels. With
additional investments, UP anticipates reducing “Carbon
Footprint” per MT of refi ned palm oil produced by 50% in
2018 compared to previous 2004 levels.
UP is continuously working towards a dynam ic and
in novative waste management and utilization system
aimed at ach ieving zero waste. For many years, UP has
been focusing on m in im izing the use of pesticides via the

ANNUAL
REPORT
2015

Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Program me, e.g. by
establish ing beneficial flowering plants, mon itoring pest
outbreaks, carrying out biological treatment and using
barn owls, leopard cats, cobras and mon itor lizards as
predators of rats in the plantation landscape. The results
are very positive; UP’s use of pesticide is e.g. 4- 5 times
lower per ton ne of oil produced compared to Rapeseed
farmers and about 36- 40 times lower compared to
Soybean farmers.
Another in itiative taken up by UP is the Cooper Tree
Species Reserve in UIE. The objective is to plant varieties
of endangered trees and establish a seedban k for these
endangered species, thereby securing their future and also
creating sanctuaries for birds and other small an imals.
More than 6,000 hectares have been set aside for
conservation purposes (jungle reserves, wildlife
sanctuaries and green
corridors), representing
approximately 10% of UP’s total planted area. The aim is
to encourage biodiversity and wildlife on UP’s estates as
well as to preserve flora and fauna. In order to develop
effective conservation strategies, UP and Copen hagen
Zoo have formed a partnersh ip, and a biodiversity
department has been established on UP’s Lada Estate in
Indonesia. The biodiversity department is responsible for
mainstream ing environ mental concerns into standard
operational procedures, focusing on activities primarily
with in biodiversity, habitat and ecosystem, forestry and
rehabilitation.
Find more in formation about UP’s com m itment to
CSR in the company’s An nual Report and at www.
un itedplantations.com.

37

