Statutory Report on:

Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR)
2015

Statutory report on Corporate Social Responsibility for the financial year 2015 cf. Section 99a and 99b of
the Danish Financial Statements Act1. This report is a supplement to the Management’s review in the
Annual Report 2015 covering the period 1 January - 31 December 2015.

1In

Danish ‘Lovpligtig redegørelse for samfundsansvar, jf. årsregnskabsloven §99a og 99b’

Zealand Pharma A/S

Smedeland 36

DK-2600 Glostrup

Denmark

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report for 2015
1.

Zealand and CSR

Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) work is an integrated part of Zealand’s business and our
efforts in the area are based on our core values. We believe that Zealand has an obligation to be socially
responsible in order to benefit not only Zealand’s main stakeholders, being mainly shareholders, patients
and employees, but also to society. It remains a key focus for us across our business to have an open,
engaging and respectful communication with all our stakeholders.
Our CSR efforts are based on the most admissible elements of some of the most widely implemented
CSR initiatives in the world, notably the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the United Nations Global
Compact. Zealand has found in these two systems complementary frameworks for both guiding and
reporting its CSR activities along several principles in the areas of labor, the environment, human rights
and anti-corruption. In addition to these, we have supplemented a provisional category for animal rights
owing to the unique exigencies of our industry.
Zealand is a maturing biotech company with established scientific expertise and a leading-edge position
in turning peptides into medicines. Our therapeutic focus lies in specialty disease areas where peptidebased medicines have particular relevance and where the patient population is easily identifiable and
treated by specialists.
We have a mature portfolio with five products out-licensed to Sanofi, Helsinn and Boehringer Ingelheim,
including one marketed medicine and two under regulatory review in the US. Zealand’s strategic focus
is on its growing proprietary pipeline, which includes four investigational medicines in clinical
development.
In 2015 we launched an accelerated growth strategy which we call ”From peptide to patient”. It is an
ambitious strategy for accelerated value creation that builds both on the prospects of significant revenue
growth from our out-licensed products and on the potential in our growing proprietary pipeline.
The strategy consists of four main elements:
• Build a portfolio of proprietary medicines
• Focus on specialty disease areas
• Enhance our peptide expertise and maintain a dynamic R&D organization
• Accelerate growth via strategic partnerships
The strategy is rooted in our core values: Ambitious, Passionate, Courageous, Curious and Empathetic.
These are fundamental for the way we work and act against all stakeholders. The values inspire and
motivate employees at Zealand to develop new peptide-based medicines to improve quality of life for
patients.

Zealand Pharma A/S

1/9

2.

Our CSR focus

At Zealand, when carrying out our business we are committed to be socially and environmentally
responsible and comply with relevant laws, standards and guidelines. At the same time we are focused
on the well-being of our employees and we encourage actions to minimize our impact on the environment
as much as possible. Given that Zealand does not currently market or commercialize medicines by itself,
there are many issues specific to the pharmaceutical industry that does not fall within the scope of
Zealand’s CSR initiatives.
Further, as we are a smaller company with app. 110 employees, we have to carefully allocate our
resources; therefore we have prioritized to not yet adopt a policy on Human Rights. However, we are
aware of and respect the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
To improve the transparency of our social responsibility, Zealand has elevated CSR questions to
Zealand’s senior management. Zealand has chosen to give particular emphasis to those areas that are
unique to Zealand’s business.
The following focus areas have been considered important to Zealand’s business and operations:

We have decided to merge two of our prior focus areas ‘Labor Practices & Decent Work’ and
‘Occupational Health & Safety’ to one area: Employee well-being including health, safety and labor
practices.
Zealand’s CSR report discloses the main highlights of our CSR initiatives but it does not reflect a static
system of initiatives and policies. It is an ongoing process that adapts to accommodate new ideas and
activities to keep the company up to date with the developments within this area.
2.1. Employee well-being including health, safety and labor practices
Policy and guidelines
At Zealand, the employees are our most important resource and we believe that an engaged, skilled and
motivated workforce results in better quality work. We work with developing our employees’
competencies, as knowledge and experience are the key to our success as a biotech company. We
believe that an experienced management team and talented pool of employees with profound experience
in the pharmaceutical and biotech industry and diverse backgrounds the best way to drive performance
and innovative thinking. We have invested in development of employee competencies and we regularly
invest in leader training to enhance employee engagement.
Key to our success is the competencies and innovative drive of our employees coupled with an
organizational culture and structure, which support open and dynamic interactions across functions.
Our work environment is characterized by:
•
•

Cross functional team-work
Room for individual performance and development

Zealand Pharma A/S

2/9

•
•
•

Informality and respect
High work-ethics and engagement
Fun

We work actively with our employees’ well-being, we have numerous policies in place to ensure the
physical, mental health and safety of all employees, and Zealand’s working environment.
We have established a number of committees, including a works council and an occupational health and
safety committee (OHSA committee) where both management and employees are represented and
regularly discuss matters related to our work environment.
Zealand has numerous written procedures in place to support our work environment. With respect to its
policies, Zealand has taken as its starting point Danish Labor Law and in some cases gone above and
beyond what is required of public companies in order to be more considerate of and responsive to the
exigencies of its workforce. These policies are described in an Employee Handbook, such as different
forms of leave, health and alcohol consumption. Our policies for occupational health and safety (OHAS)
are described in an individual manual. It emphasizes that Zealand highly prioritizes the work environment.
General health and wellbeing at Zealand are also taken seriously, and the company facilitates the good
health of its employees with gym and exercise facilities, as well as healthy food options. Health insurance
is offered to all employees.
Zealand works systematically to maintain a safe and healthy work environment and to develop
employees understanding of their own and colleagues' safety.
All Zealand employees are trained under standard safety protocol, through which they are given the tools
to manage their own occupational safety. Workplace audits (Arbejdspladsvurderinger APV) are
conducted regularly.
A “Near-Accident” Reporting Initiative to build on Zealand’s strong safety track record and safeguard
against potential future accidents is maintained.
All employees at Zealand have a job description and CV, which are reviewed on a yearly basis.
Zealand is committed to develop its employees, and provide continuous training and have therefore
budgeted a fixed amount for every employee every year for training and development purposes. This
policy has proven to have synergistic benefits for both company and employee. Zealand takes its
employee development interviews (EDI) very seriously, including clear goal and bonus goal setting,
competence development and performance evaluation, which are performed yearly.
Labor unions currently representing our employees include ‘HK it, medie og Industri Hovedstaden’.
Zealand negotiates in good faith a collective agreement every 3 years. Next negotiation is planned for
2016.
Additionally, Zealand actively promotes an open, inclusive environment for its employees, and has
adopted English as its primary language to accommodate its substantial cohort of international
employees. Zealand is also open-minded and forward thinking in its employment development programs
for PhD candidates and trainees.
We have implemented various indicators to measure employee satisfaction. A yearly employee
satisfaction survey is performed and measures the results from initiatives from the previous year as well
as identifies areas for improvement going forward.
Risk assessments are reviewed quarterly, and the OSHA Committee at Zealand regularly conducts
surveys.

Zealand Pharma A/S

3/9

2.1.1

Diversity

Zealand’s culture and policies are rooted in a respect for diversity and are as such fully compliant with
Danish regulation regarding equal opportunity employment.
Zealand is committed to hiring and retaining the most qualified employees without regard to race, creed,
gender or age, but strives for diversity throughout the organization with respect to age, nationality and
gender.
Zealand aims to achieve a reasonable representation of both gender on all management levels – from
board of directors to head of departments. We will encourage female candidates’ interest in taking on
managerial tasks.
The split of female vs. male employees were:
2015
Male

2014
Female

Male

Female

Zealand Pharma A/S

48%

52%

46%

54%

Executive management

50%

50%

100%

0%

Senior management

60%

40%

60%

40%

Head of departments

59%

41%

73%

27%

Other employees

46%

54%

40%

60%

The executive management has an even split of female/male representation in 2015 (2014: 0% female
representation), whereas the senior management team at Zealand constitutes 40% women end of 2015
(2014: 40%), same level as in 2014.
Of the head of departments, 41% were female end of 2015 (2014: 27%).
Other employees figures

2015

2014

Average age of workforce

46,1

45,0

% of non-Danish employees

19%

22%

37

34

PhD students

3

3

Other students

3

1

Employees holding a PhD

End of 2015, the percentage of the total employees being non-Danish were 19% (2014: 22%). Of the
senior management, 40% were non-Danish
The average age of the employees at Zealand was 46.1 years in 2015 (2014: 45 years).
Members of the Board of Directors currently constitute 3 women and 6 men, of which 2 women and 4
men have been elected at the Annual General Meeting (33% female representation).

Zealand Pharma A/S

4/9

The target in 2014 was to have a minimum of 25% AGM elected female board members within 2 years.
This target has been achieved by the election of Rosemary Crane and Catherine Moukheibir at the
Annual General Meeting in 2015.
Achievements in 2015
Development
•

We launched an implementation plan to identify actions to move the company towards achieving
our ambitious 2020+ strategy named “From peptide to patient”. Zealand held a company day for
the whole organization in order to explain and start the implementation of the new strategy.

•

To support our strategy and as part of our organizational growth, Zealand has in 2015 established
a number of new department areas such as HR, Regulatory and Quality Assurance – areas that
previously have been taken care of by external consultants.

Employee well-being
•

At the employee satisfaction survey, the percentage of employees that stated that Zealand is a
good place to work amounted to 97% (2014: 89%). An improvement of 8%.

•

87 % of the work force at Zealand view the physical work environment at Zealand as good/often
good (2014: 88%), and 88% of the work force view the psychological work environment as
good/often good (2014: 85%).

•

The absence rate was 1.8% (2014: 2,0%).

•

During the year, Zealand offered a health check to all employees.

•

Employee turnover was 6%, compared to our target on 7%, this was above expectations.

•

Zealand regularly invests in leader training. In 2015, individual training took place; while in 2014
all department heads completed an internal, common management training.

Safety:
•

Under our ‘Near-Accident’ Reporting Initiative 2 ‘near-accidents’ were reported (2014: 4 ‘near
accidents’ reported).

•

Two ‘obligated to notify’ accidents were reported (2014 – none).

•

Zealand has had no incidents of significant injury in 2015 (2014 – 0), as measured by days of
absenteeism or convalescence taken due to work-related injury.

Diversity
•

As of 15 January 2015, Britt Meelby Jensen took up the position as new Chief Executive Officer
replacing David H. Solomon, who had been leading the company since 2008. The executive
management is then represented by an even split of female/male.

•

In 2015, as part of our organic growth, Zealand established a number of new departments and
new head of departments were either recruited or promoted internally. Out of the 5 new head of
departments, 4 were women.

Zealand Pharma A/S

5/9

•

Zealand remained committed to provide equal opportunities for women and men at all
management levels.

Focus areas in 2016
•

We will continue our activities to implement our ambitious 2020+ strategy.

•

Leadership training has been planned for both project managers and department heads.

•

The focus area for the whole organization is stress and actions to prevent stress among the
employees. This is measured via our yearly employee survey. The goal for 2016 is that less than
the answers are 20% to the question ‘I do not feel stressed’ (of the possible replies: ‘often not
true’ or ‘un-true’).

•

The target range for the employee survey on ‘Zealand is a good place to work’ is 92-97%.

•

Zealand cares about the well-being of the employees and will again in 2016 offer a health check
to all employees.

•

We aim for an appropriate level of employee turnover and an absence rate at same level as the
previous years.

•

We aim for an appropriate level of Near-Accident’s.

•

Zealand will continue to focus on the gender diversity of employees at all levels of the company.

•

We will continue to encourage female candidates to take on managerial tasks.

•

Zealand will continue to focus on employee well-being, health and safety.

2.2. Ethics and Quality in relation to Research and Development Activities
Policy and guidelines
Zealand’s quality policy describes compliance with international recognized standards and guidelines in
all stages of research and development and does not place patients or animals at risk due to inadequate
safety, quality or efficacy. Activities not performed in-house, are outsourced to qualified and approved
vendors. It is recognized, that in outsourcing these activities, Zealand maintains the sponsor
responsibility for the activities and quality procedures are established to ensure that the outsourcing is
established and managed in compliance with relevant international regulations, legislations and
guidelines, such as Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and Good
Clinical Practice (GCP).
Zealand has one common Quality Management System (QMS) for all Research and Development
activities that is described in a Quality Manual. New employees are trained in the QMS, Quality Policy
and Standard Operating Procedures as part of their introduction program.
Zealand is committed to complying with relevant regulations, laws, standards and guidelines. We
therefore ensure performance of internal and external audits according to approved audit plans.

Zealand Pharma A/S

6/9

Achievements in 2015
•

Zealand ensures performance of internal and external audits according to approved audit plans.
13 audits were conducted (2014: 4 audits).

Focus areas in 2016
•

2.2.1

Zealand will focus on a general update of our Quality Manual, and continuously auditing our
vendors.

Animal welfare

To allow for the discovery of new therapies and to ensure efficacy and safety of new pharmaceuticals, it
is necessary to conduct in vivo experiments using laboratory animal species. Zealand’s policy towards
animal ethics and welfare is to use animal studies only where no available and acceptable in vitro
alternative exists. When used, all laboratory animals used under our responsibility must be treated
humanely and with respect, and only purpose-bred animals are used. Zealand adheres to the principles
of the 3R’s (reduction, refinement and replacement) and work to integrate these principles in all studies
conducted, where possible.
All in-house animal studies are carried out in accordance with guidelines provided by the Danish Ministry
of Justice, including specific licenses. Danish law stipulates regular inspections of the animal facilities,
as well as comprehensive reporting protocols overseeing experiments conducted during the year,
processed through the governmental agency (Dyreforsøgstilsynet). The operational flow of information
and reporting, upward from lab technician to academic to department head, ultimately ensures a
centralized destination for all of the company’s pharmacology and toxicology data, which is duly recorded,
organized and sent to the regulatory authorities.
All employees working with laboratory animals have appropriate and documented education and training.
Veterinarian inspections of the animal facilities are performed regularly and always on-demand.
In addition, Zealand has an internal ethical committee that screens all proposed in-house in vivo
pharmacology and PK experiments for compliance to regulatory and ethical permissions.
The necessity of animal experiments to Zealand’s research and development activities cannot be
overstated, and thus the company constantly strives for the greatest vigilance and care in its treatment
of animals.
Achievements in 2015
•

In 2015, as in 2014, there were no reported incidents of negligence.

Focus areas in 2016
•

Zealand will continue to focus on animal welfare and comply with the principles of the 3R’s.

2.3. Environmental sustainability and climate
Policy and guidelines
Zealand’s environmental policy outlines our commitment to protect the environment. By conducting
business in a safe and environmental friendly manner, we aim to reduce the impact on the environment

Zealand Pharma A/S

7/9

and climate as far as possible taking into consideration our size and type of company. Zealand complies
with laws and regulations relevant for our business.
We are mindful about the environment and climate, and we encourage employees to act in an
environmental friendly way, to produce as little waste as possible. We have implemented two-sided,
black/white printing as our office standard, and a ‘please consider the environment before printing’
message in our standard e-mail signature.
We have procedures for recycling paper and cardboard as well as use of electricity and heating.
Zealand contributes to energy saving by selecting office and laboratory equipment that requires low
energy usage when possible.
Our travel guidelines limit unnecessary plane travel by employees and encourage use of our video
conference facilities and teleconferencing as an alternative to business travels.

2015 achievements
•

Zealand continued to encourage employees to act in an environmental friendly manner.

•

As a specific initiative, we have removed all plastic and glass bottles, installed a number of
drinking water machines and then provided all employees with recycled water bottles.

•

We reduced our number of business travels and our travel costs decreased by 10% compared
to 2014.

2016 focus areas
•

We remain mindful about the environment and will continue to minimize our environmental impact
and encourage employees to continue with initiatives to improve our environment and climate.

2.4. Business ethics
Policy and guidelines
Zealand’s quality and reputation as a business and scientific collaborator are of the utmost importance
to its strategic future, and it is therefore in the company’s and its stakeholders’ best interests that Zealand
employees are educated and kept updated of policies regarding corruption and compliance, insider
trading, proper and legal management of external intellectual property.
Zealand strives to conduct business according to highest ethical standards and safeguards its business
against corruption and non-compliance where its employees are most at risk.
Zealand will proactively engage in a positive dialogue with all regulatory and advisory authorities and
stakeholders from the relevant industry, in order to be inspired to further improvements.
Zealand has an established whistleblower program, which is approved by the Danish Data Protection
Agency.
Zealand contributes to sponsorships and during the last 4 years, Zealand has supported the Juvenile
Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) organization.

Zealand Pharma A/S

8/9

2.2.2

Corruption & compliance

Zealand actively promotes and maintains a policy of transparency and honesty with its employees.
Zealand’s “Employee Handbook” stipulates a set of policies, which specify the company’s standards for
its employees’ good and legal conduct.
2.2.3

Insider trading

Zealand has taken every precaution to keep all its employees, board members, and certain stakeholders
fully educated in and compliant with the company’s internal rules. The company distinguishes carefully
between those who are listed on its permanent “Insiders List,” and those who encounter what is deemed
“Insider Information.” In the latter case, Zealand takes every precaution to keep an updated list concurrent
with changes in certain employees’ knowledge of information. All new employees are introduced to our
internal rules, and have to sign a document stipulating that the rules have been read and understood.
2.2.4

Intellectual property

The company has strict policies regarding the proper use and transfer of intellectual property. Since its
founding, Zealand has been able to refine its confidentiality and material transfer agreements to reflect
the critical changes of the industry, building on the extensive industry experience of many of its senior
members.
Achievements in 2015
•

No issues were reported in 2015 under our whistleblower program (2014: 0).

•

Zealand has had no indication of any violations of the above categories (2014: 0).

Focus areas in 2016
•

Zealand will continue to conduct business according to highest ethical standard.

Zealand Pharma A/S

9/9

