Mandatory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility,
cf. the Danish Financial Statements Act, Section 99a
This mandatory report on corporate social responsibility for Brødrene A & O Johansen A/S
is part of the Management’s Review in the Annual Report for 2013 and covers the
accounting period from 1 January to 31 December 2013.
In all of our business activities, AO wants to comply with current legislation and
international conventions in the countries and communities where we operate.
We respect and comply with competition rules, environmental legislation, labour market
legislation, agreements and safety requirements, and other regulations that provide the
framework of how we conduct business. We want to be a responsible company that
supports the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, the
environment and anti-corruption.
Our suppliers are expected to adhere to the requirements of our Supplier Code of
Conduct. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is as an integral part of our supply
agreements, has been prepared to ensure that suppliers to AO exhibit the desired
responsibility. (Our Supplier Code of Conduct is available at AO.dk which is updated on a
regular basis).
AO operates primarily in Denmark, and the greater part of our purchases is made in the
EU. Our employees are our greatest asset, and we have therefore chosen to focus on
work environment issues and the environment in general as the most important areas.
In keeping with Danish Act No. 1383 of 23 December 2012 on the introduction of rules
regarding target figures and policies for the gender composition of the supreme governing
board and the reporting thereof, the company has on 1 April 2013, decided that, in
connection with the ordinary general meeting in 2017 at the latest, the shareholder-elected
Board members are to be composed of 1 woman and 4 men. At the time of the
presentation of the financial statements the target figure has not been reached, due to the
fact that, at this moment in time, the Board consists of 0 women and 5 men.
In addition, the company has drawn up a policy to increase the share of the
underrepresented gender at the company’s other management levels in Denmark. The
goal is to achieve a share of female managers of at least 10% in 2017 at the latest. The
current gender composition of the company’s other management levels is 7% women and
93% men. On the basis of the above-mentioned policy the company’s efforts to increase
the share of the underrepresented gender at the company’s other management levels are
assessed to be successful in the long term
We have a working environment policy and an environmental policy focusing on the
continued improvement of the company’s performance.
Working environment
It is AO’s policy to constantly focus on competent and respectful management, motivation,
development/training and working environment, including
•

developing the skills of employees, so that their potential is being used, and their
value on the labour market is strengthened

•

providing a healthy and safe working environment with focus on the prevention of
accidents and injuries

•

working on diversity and equal opportunities for all staff, regardless of gender, age,
ethnic origin, religion, or the like through, among other things, a professional
recruitment process

•

co-operating with a work environment consultant who acts as a sparring partner,
when work-related tasks have to be solved in the most optimal way

•

preparing a dynamic employment policy which interacts with the development of the
organisation and AO’s strategies. The employment policy reflects the overall
philosophy as well as specific guidelines and practices

•

having several applicable staff policies that directly affect the working environment,
among these, policies on health and safety at work, drugs and alcohol, ethics,
bullying and harassment

•

AO’s policies and practices relating to recruitment, pay, promotion, working
conditions, and skills development are meant to ensure that discrimination is
avoided, and that decisions are made on the basis of objective criteria.

The above-mentioned policies and actions are an integral part of our daily management
activities and culture. However, no specific measurements within each individual area will
be made, so achieved results cannot be described.
The environment
AO acknowledges that an active consideration for the environment is important, and
through our purchases, investments and other operations of the business we will help to
protect the environment. We focus on reducing the most significant environmental impacts
which we have assessed to be transport, waste, and energy and resource consumption.
Our environmental policy is available at the website AO.dk, which is updated on a regular
basis (in Danish only).
The following concrete actions concerning the environment need to be outlined:
•

Our administration and central warehouse in Albertslund and our logistics centre in
Horsens are environmentally certified according to DS/EN ISO 14001. More
information about our environmental certification is available at AO.dk (only in
Danish).

•

Our rental and service functions as well as our new warehouse facilities at
Herstedvang 6 in Albertslund are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001.

•

A number of environmental initiatives have been launched in order to reduce the
consumption of electricity and paper and to collect consumables for recycling.

The company’s environmental management system is audited once a year and new
objectives are determined.
AO’s objectives for 2013 were the following:

Relative transport costs are to be reduced annually by 6%:
In mid-2013, a new external haulage contractor took over the job of transporting AO’s
goods which resulted in lots of extra expenses, and therefore the target of a 6% reduction
in relative transport costs could not be met in 2013. In 2013 the relative transport costs
increased by 2%. However, AO believes that the environmental impact in practice has
been reduced in 2013 due to the fact that AO’s new distribution forms part of an existing
distribution setup. In 2014, a distribution adapted to the actual needs with continued focus
on reducing the current environmental impact is expected. The objective of reducing the
relative transport costs by 6% is therefore expected to be met in 2014.
Supply of goods to customers through the company’s stores is to be increased
annually by 6%:
In 2013, 111,179 deliveries of stocked items were made through the company’s stores
which is an increase of 10% compared to last year. The target was therefore met.
At Rørvang total energy consumption, including electricity, heat and fuels, is to be
reduced annually by 6%:
In 2013 AO decided to invest in a new high-bay warehouse and an extensive renovation of
the central warehouse, and therefore no large energy-saving improvements have been
completed in 2013. As a result, total energy costs increased by 2% in 2013. The central
warehouse is currently undergoing a renovation of its building envelope. In addition to the
building envelope work, new energy-saving heat supply will be installed, and energysaving LED lighting will be mounted. Consequently, positive effects of these energy-saving
measures are first expected in 2014/2015.
The company is to recycle more than 60% of its total waste (annually repeated
objective):
AO continues to have full focus on the sorting of waste. According to the waste analyses
for 2013, the company recycled 74% and 81% of its total waste at the central warehouse
in Albertslund and at the logistics centre in Horsens.
Plastic boxes for packing and transportation of replenishment orders to AO’s stores were
introduced in 2012, and in 2013 it has resulted in a packaging reduction of more than 30%
compared to previous years.
In 2013, AO also invested in several newly built and modern stores that are customerfriendly and energy efficient, and here AO will achieve a considerable saving of energy of
benefit to both the economy and the environment.
AO’s climate and environmental objectives for 2014-2015 are defined as follows:
•

Relative transport costs are to be reduced annually by 6%.

•

Supply of goods to customers through the company’s stores is to be increased
annually by 6%.

•

At Rørvang total energy consumption, including electricity, heat and fuels, is to be
reduced annually by 6%.

•

The company is to recycle more than 60% of its total waste.

