Polczyno | Poland

Pozzo Palaggi | Italy

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Greentech is highly aware of the Company’s role
as a player in society in a local, national and
international context. Therefore, Greentech
remains attentive towards making targeted efforts
to ensure that its core business area and activities
are developed in a financially, environmentally and
socially responsible manner by both complying
with statutory requirements and taking voluntary
Corporate Responsibility initiatives in the countries
and communities in which Greentech operates.
Greentech believes that responsible business
behaviour is a precondition for long-term value
creation for the Company and its stakeholders.
The UN principles on human rights, labour rights,
environment and anticorruption form the guiding
framework on which Greentech’s Corporate
Responsibility efforts are based.
In its considerations relating to Corporate
Responsibility initiatives, Greentech seeks
inspiration in the UN Global Compact initiative for
corporate social responsibility.
The following statement constitutes Greentech’s
statutory report on corporate responsibility

Gross production (GWh)
Clean Power Supply (number of house-holds in 1 year)
Emission of CO2 avoided (tons)
Oil saved (barrels)

published in accordance with the provisions
stipulated in section 99a of the Danish Financial
Statements Act.

CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT
Through the Company’s core business of
producing and selling renewable energy,
Greentech directly contributes to set a positive
footprint in terms of reducing the environmental
and climate impact.
In line with Greentech’s business goal of enlarging
the operational portfolio significantly, Greentech
strives to generate and distribute clean energy
production in order to preserve the environment
and to contribute to a world sustainable growth.
During the past years, Greentech has provided a
continuously increasing production of renewable
energy providing environmental advantages in
terms of savings of fossil fuels and reduction of
CO2 emissions.

2013

2012

2011

492.8
164,252
261,161
672,661

444.2
148,074
235,883
606,409

358.1
119,373
190,162
488,870

35

Management review
GREENTECH | ANNUAL REPORT 2013

During the 3-year period from 2011 to 2013,
the production generated by Greentech’s gross
installed capacity has increased by 38% supplying
164,000 families with non-polluting energy in 2013
- 45,000 more than in 2011.

Greentech has a diverse staff with a broad
employee composition in terms of geographical and
cultural background, gender and age distribution
(see the paragraph “Organisation” for details on the
composition of the employees).

As Greentech offers an alternative to the
dependency on scarce and polluting power
sources providing clean energy without emissions
of hazardous particles or greenhouse gases, no
special environmental risks are involved with
Greentech’s activities.

Moreover, Greentech gives high priority to ensuring a
safe and sound working environment. Particularly in
the Company’s wind and solar plants, severe health
and safety procedures have been implemented to
secure the employees and minimise risk of
accidents. So far, these provisions have prevented
the occurrence of any such serious incidents.

The Company, however, stays extremely attentive
towards and is highly committed to assess the
physical impact of the Company’s activities.
Greentech’s projects are subject to environmental
permits, and at all project stages Greentech is
governed by comprehensive environmental
legislation and rules which, through mandatory
surveys and analyses, serve to safeguard the
surroundings of the Company’s plants, i.e. flora
and fauna, local residents and the landscape.
To the extent possible, Greentech also limits the
environmental impact of its business activities.
Greentech focuses on replanting of e.g. trees and
shrubs in corresponding areas if removal of such
plants is needed to complete the Company’s
activities.

PEOPLE
Greentech considers diversity an important asset
and remains committed to ensuring equal
opportunities and rights for employees and
therefore will not tolerate discrimination or
harassment based on religion, race, ethnicity,
gender, age, sexuality, political opinion or other
status.

36

As Greentech’s activities are often carried out in
geographical areas that have a high rate of
unemployment, Greentech also contributes to
ensuring growth in local communities through
employment of local workers, contractors and
suppliers.
Diversity in management - Reporting
according to section 99b of the Danish
Financial Statements Act.
In 2013, the Board of Directors has set focus
specifically on initiatives encouraging diversity at
managerial levels. In Q1 2013, hence, the Board of
Directors adopted a policy centred on proposing
election of candidates for the Board that may bring
a greater degree of gender equality to the Board of
Directors. In line with section 139a of the Danish
Companies Act, the Board of Directors, thus, has
stipulated a target figure for the proportion of
women, who currently constitute the
underrepresented sex of the Board:
It is the aim of the Board of Directors of
Greentech that 2 female board members be
elected by the General Meeting within
a 4-year period.

Minerva Messina | Italy

Greentech is ambitious on the topic and wishes to
make targeted efforts to achieve the goal within a
shorter time frame.
The target may, however, be amended, and it is
always the primary criteria that the candidates
proposed for the Board of Directors are selected
considering their suitability based on professional
and personals skills and competences.
Greentech’s Board of Directors currently consists
of 7 male members. The next election for the
Board of Directors is at the Annual General
Meeting to be held on 15 April 2014.
Additionally, the Company has adopted policies
regarding the proportion of gender in the other
management levels of the Company:
Greentech is committed to working towards
creating and maintaining equal opportunities for
women and men at all management levels in the
Company. In connection with all recruitment,
including recruitment at management level, it is
Greentech's policy to fulfil the Company's
requirements for employees with the necessary
skills and competences, regardless of gender, age,
ethnicity etc. When choosing between equally
qualified candidates, the diversity among the
employees shall be taken into consideration. In
connection with recruitment for managerial
positions it should be ensured, where possible,
that the candidates invited for interview include
both men and women.

Vaglio | Italy

ETHICS AND BEHAVIOUR
Transparency and compliance with national and
international regulation and standards are
considered cornerstones in Greentech’s business
behaviour and the Company is committed to
undertake its activities with due consideration and
respect of internal and external procedures and
guidelines.
A code of ethics has been introduced for the
majority of the Group companies that addresses
relevant issues and prescribes the correct
behaviour in interactions with the Company’s
internal and external stakeholders.
Greentech operates in an international context,
currently in five different European countries
(Denmark, Germany, Italy, Poland and Spain)
which all constitutes fairly limited risk factors in
terms of businesses’ exposure to human rights
violations. Consequently, Greentech does not
conduct any activities, liaise or contract with
business partners or suppliers in countries
considered high-risk in terms of human rights
abuses.
In the future, Greentech will continuously
endeavour to expand its corporate responsibility
efforts by integrating environmental and social
aspects in its planning and decision-making
processes. These efforts will be based on the
topics most relevant with respect to Greentech’s
core business and commercial goals as this is the
best way in which Greentech can contribute
through relevant initiatives to the benefit of the
Company and of its stakeholders.

37

