MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW
REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
Sustainability is a central element in Harboe’s strategy for the group’s continued growth and development. Eﬀective utilisation of resources and positive relations with the company’s stakeholders are essential to Harboe’s
future value creation. Harboe’s corporate social responsibility activities are
rooted in a policy based on a commercial prioritisation of value creation
and risk mitigation. The policy has been approved by the company’s Board
of Directors and can be found on the group’s website at:
http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/AMDAEBDFV/1941228922x0x584948/9f89ea52-5d9b-4692-9a5e-bd92891306c6/
CSR_-_2012_UK.pdf
The group has decided to focus on the following four focus areas within
business-driven corporate social responsibility: climate and environment,
employees and occupational health and safety, quality and health, and
community relations.
As a member of the Danish Brewers’ Association, Harboe supports the industry’s responsibility initiatives and participates in the ongoing reporting
within the industry’s focus areas.

CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT
Harboe’s objective is to minimise the resources used in the production process as much as possible relative to the overall production volume, thereby
reducing the environmental impact of its activities.
Harboe’s production facilities are optimised at regular intervals to ensure
an up-to-date, eﬃcient and flexible production process. All investments in
new production technology, optimisation of existing production facilities
and all product and packaging development take into account resource
use and general environmental impact.
All the group’s units are certified according to international quality and environmental standards.
Harboe prepares green accounts for its production unit in Skælskør containing information about raw material, water and energy consumption as
well as emissions, waste water discharge and waste disposal.
Optimisation eﬀorts continued in the logistics area, and last year’s changes
in the warehouse facilities’ infrastructure led to permanently improved efficiency and significant reductions in internal warehouse transport.
Investments were made in the past financial year to maintain and optimise
the group’s production facilities. Moreover, a strategic task force has been
appointed with a view to creating additional operational synergies in the

32

entire value chain. Expectations are that, in the coming years, the eﬀorts
will be able to further strengthen processes and resource utilisation in production, among other things through the more eﬃcient organisation of
individual productions.

The market is seeing a growing consumer demand for healthier products.
Harboe continues to focus intensively on innovation in order to meet this
demand, and product development within malt extract is one of the eﬀorts
that support this strategy.

EMPLOYEES AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

Finally, Harboe supports the industry’s standards for responsible marketing
of alcohol and the information activities carried out under the auspices of
the Danish Brewers’ Association.

Harboe wants to be an attractive workplace that is able to attract, retain
and develop the talents necessary to ensure the group’s continued development.
Harboe’s corporate culture is based on responsibility, cooperation, quality
and results. Harboe’s employees are oﬀered competitive pay and employment conditions in accordance with applicable collective agreements,
good practice and relevant international standards. Furthermore, the
employees are oﬀered regular training to ensure the continued upgrading
of skills and qualifications.

Harboe will continue to focus on quality and health in the coming year as
well. In this context, the implementation of the ERP system is expected to
contribute to optimised control of the quality standards. At the same time,
the further development activities within malt extract and the development of own drinks products will focus on meeting the demand for more
natural and nutritious products.

EXTERNAL RELATIONS
The health and well-being of its employees is important to Harboe. In addition to attractive canteen arrangements, the group’s health-promoting
initiatives include personal advice and activities for employees, including
oﬀers of personal health checks and subsequent advice on lifestyle changes.

It is an integral part of Harboe’s management philosophy and fundamental
values that the company has a good and constructive relationship with its
stakeholders, based on professionalism, open dialogue and mutual respect.
The group’s business-ethical policies regulate the relations with its business
partners.

Harboe’s relations with its suppliers and other partners are also based on
agreements and contracts being drafted in accordance with international
standards, and the group has developed a number of standard requirements regarding quality, the reliability of deliveries and CSR which are incorporated into the supplier agreements.
Harboe is strongly rooted in the local community, and being aware of the
responsibility that naturally comes from being an integral part of the
communities in which the company operates is a key element of the group’s
values. This year, Harboe thus again supported many relevant local sports
activities, cultural events and charities. The activities have a positive impact
on the group’s relations with the outside world, just as they contribute to
strengthening company culture and a sense of togetherness.
In the coming year, Harboe will work on further strengthening and expanding the professional and mutually value creating collaboration with suppliers and other partners. The process will focus particularly on the continued internationalisation of the business and provision of the formal framework for the relations and business activities established in new markets
where social conditions, regulation and business practice deviate from EU
standards.

Harboe is dedicated to ensuring a safe working environment that seeks to
prevent absence due to illness and injury. Harboe is constantly investing in
training and development activities to ensure that its employees are optimally geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and eﬃcient manner.
Further training programmes for employees were also completed this year. In
accordance with the strategy, the group’s production unit in Skælskør received occupational health and safety certification last year. Several processes
were optimised in connection with the certification, and in future the certification will enable a more structured, ongoing follow-up in this area. Preparations for a similar certification of the group’s other two production units in
Germany and Estonia have started, and this is expected to be completed in
the course of 2013.

QUALITY AND HEALTH
As an international drinks manufacturer and supplier to food companies
worldwide, product quality and safety are paramount. Harboe will meet
the highest food safety standards by using raw materials that ensure a high
and uniform quality throughout the entire value chain – from raw material
to the finished product.
Harboe’s requirements for the quality of the raw materials purchased from
suppliers follow this ambition and are evaluated systematically.
Investments in quality improvements and optimisation of production facilities are made to ensure that Harboe meets new requirements and expectations for quality and hygiene at all times. All the group’s production units
are certified in accordance with international quality standards, and
systematic follow-up and control are carried out.

Annual report 2012/13

Annual report 2012/13

33

