Corporate social responsibility

The sections below constitute the Group’s statutory reporting on corporate social responsibility (CSR). The Group's CSR policy applies to all employees in MT Højgaard and the Group’s wholly-owned companies, while the principles apply to the whole Group. Based on the CSR policy, each company in the Group also has a number of independent policies that have been drawn up in relation to the individual company’s strategy, focus area and organisation. As the various companies in the Group are very different in size and structure, they work independently with their areas based on what best suits their individual needs. The Group’s CSR policy affirms our commitment to act ethically in the execution of our activities in relation to integrity, fairness and corporate social responsibility. We have integrated the UN Global Compact's ten principles in our CSR policy. Our CSR policy consists of the following main elements:  Human rights  Labour rights  Environment/climate  Business conduct  Anti-corruption Our CSR policy states, among other things, that we do not accept bribery, forced labour, child labour or discrimination. We continuously ensure that our procedures and processes support our CSR policy. All standards become an integral part of the internal systems of the companies in question. We ensure that all employees in MT Højgaard and the Group’s wholly-owned companies and suppliers are aware of our positions and guidelines. In the following, we report on policies, actions and results for 2013 in the areas of injury prevention, which is part of labour rights, and prevention of environmental impacts, and training and education. Both injury prevention and the environment are essential areas in construction and civil engineering. In the Group, we also have positions on other CSR issues than those set out above. However, the Group has not previously had policies in these other CSR areas or planned, measured and followed up on actions in these areas to the same extent as in the case of, for example, the environment and anticorruption. Consequently, as part of the development of the Group’s corporate social responsibility, a development project will be launched in 2013 that is to lead to an updated CSR strategy and associated policies. Further details about this project are provided in the section ‘New initiatives in 2014’. Injury prevention We continuously strive to improve our health and safety performance. We will do our utmost to prevent injuries and work-related illness by instructing and training our employees to perform their work safely and without risks to health. A great deal of the work on injury prevention is carried out locally by the individual companies, where the activities that may involve a risk of injuries take place. Actions, results and objectives – injury prevention In 2013, we continued our efforts to improve recording and communication concerning near misses. These are incidents that in less fortunate circumstances might easily have led to an occupational injury but in which the employee was fortunate enough to avoid injury. The more we learn about the circumstances surrounding these incidents, the better we become at preventing occupational injuries, partly by improving communication with employees about risks in various work situations. Acquisition and recording of knowledge are therefore essential. At MT Højgaard, we draw up local action plans so that we can address local problems closer to the source and make our health and safety action more relevant to the individual divisions. In several of our subsidiaries we focus on further developing our existing APV (workplace assessment). In 2013, we worked on initiatives in areas such as fall accidents, clearance and winter protection of building sites, where the risk of injuries may be higher. The companies have run campaigns, held employee meetings and instructed employees in the importance of recording near misses. In 2013, MT Højgaard had an injury frequency of 27.4 per one million hours worked among our hourly paid employees. This was higher than the expected target of an injury frequency of 15 for hourly paid employees and higher than 2012 when it was 11.7. The increase is primarily made up of less severe injuries. The target is an injury frequency below 15 for hourly paid employees, and this target must be achieved over the coming three years. The increase reflected the fact that, in 2013, MT Højgaard did not pay enough attention to this area, and specific initiatives will consequently be put in place in 2014 to turn this situation around. Going forward, we will be working with a new, joint figure for both hourly paid and salaried employees. The figure was 14.9 in 2013, and the target for 2014 is 12 for all employees. The injury frequency fell in three of the four whollyowned subsidiaries in 2013. In 2013, MT Højgaard also had a target to reduce the number of lost time injuries involving 1-4 days’ absence by 10%. Unfortunately, we did not meet that target. We will continue to pursue this target in 2014. Following Lindpro’s certification to the international occupational health and safety standard DS/OHSAS 18001:2008 in 2013, MT Højgaard and all the Group’s wholly-owned subsidiaries are now certified to this standard. Environment and climate The Group wants to take care of the environment and the climate. The construction process, building materials and building waste, as well as the operation of the finished building, have wide-ranging effects on the environment and the climate. The Group’s environmental initiatives are based on the legislation in the countries where we carry out projects. However, the initiatives also take account of special requirements from our customers and initiatives of our own that can help to reduce the environmental impact. We are working on reducing the environmental impact in our offices, on construction sites and in the projects we have completed. We also encourage the development and spread of technologies that facilitate environmentally sound solutions, both internally and in collaboration with clients and other stakeholders. Moreover, we are very conscientious about ensuring that our employees are always trained to perform their tasks in an environmentally sound manner. MT Højgaard and Lindpro comply with the principles in the international environmental standard DS/ISO 14001:2004. Actions, results and objectives environment and climate The companies in the Group implement a number of different activities that help to reduce the environmental and climate impact of our activities. Scandi Byg’s prefabricated modular buildings save resources at all stages of the construction process. In addition, the company uses timber for the load-bearing structure, which saves the climate large quantities of CO2 compared with other materials. Scandi Byg wants to be at the leading edge of developments in the field of energy labelling and can meet the stricter requirements (e.g. Low Energy Class 2015 and Building Class 2020). Scandi Byg also focuses on green procurement, including for example swan-labelled (eco-labelled) products and timber from FSC/PEFC-certified suppliers. In 2013, we replaced all the light fittings at Scandi Byg’s Tolstrupvej premises in Løgstør. This resulted in a reduction in kWh consumption of about 70% per year. We also set up noise attenuation for the exhaust system. In 2014, we plan to continue the conversion of the heating system from natural gas to district heating in our office building as well as another production hall (conversion in the other production halls was started in 2012). Lindpro’s objective was to be able to document a saving of at least 10% in energy consumption and reduce CO2 emissions by at least 20% by the end of 2013 in relation to 2009 levels (measured per employee). Lindpro currently estimates that the company has reduced its total energy consumption by the desired 10%. In 2013, Lindpro had an energy check (electricity) carried out on the buildings owned by the company. In 2013, MT Højgaard reduced its consumption of ordinary A4 paper by 21%. The reduction in the previous year was 4%. A considerable part of the reduction in 2013 must be put down to the lower level of activity and fewer employees. In general, we would like to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions from the Group’s vehicle fleet. At MT Højgaard, we assess our company cars on lifecycle costs, so the fuel consumption goes into the monthly performance, which determines the categorisation of the vehicles. In 2013, we fitted GPS units in all works vehicles. The GPS units monitor the vehicles’ idling, speed, fuel consumption and driving characteristics (using a built-in g meter), so unnecessary fuel consumption can be avoided. Among other things, this has meant that MT Højgaard has reduced fuel consumption per kilometre driven in company vehicles by approximately 10%, as the average increase in the number of kilometres driven per litre was around 1.5 km per litre. Ajos is also in the process of fitting GPS units in its service vehicles. Both MT Højgaard and Ajos have rules for limiting idling. Enemærke & Petersen have a vehicle policy with a minimum requirement for fuel consumption. Lindpro has opted for service vehicles with lower fuel consumption and in 2013 they introduced a speed limit of 120 km/h for yellow plate (tax relieved) vehicles. Both companies have an ongoing programme for replacing their vehicle fleets with more energy-efficient vehicles. Throughout the Group there is also continual focus on opportunities for further energy optimisation. One of these is the environmental and climate impact of the Group’s ‘own’ activities. The Group also pays great attention to environmental sustainability in the services we supply to our customers. Lindpro carries out energy optimisation on existing buildings and offers consultancy services in this area when new buildings are being erected. Ajos focuses closely on energy optimisation in the building phase and advises on sustainability measures in connection with the layout and set-up of construction sites, green budgets and accounts, and offers customers the opportunity to have their energy consumption measured with a view to reducing, for example, CO2 emissions. Ajos’ portable buildings consume very little energy and have been improved by intelligent energy consumption management, e.g. control of lighting, heating, ventilation and external awnings. In collaboration with MT Højgaard, Ajos has systematised sustainable measures to ensure that all major projects in Denmark comply with MT Højgaard’s sustainability measures. MT Højgaard advises its business partners on opportunities for sustainable building and refurbishment. For verification of both sustainability and the associated financial consequences for clients, MT Højgaard has developed a user-friendly energy calculator and a green barometer. Both for the benefit of its own customers and also on its own behalf, the Group offers construction certified in accordance with sustainability certification from BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method), the Danish DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen) and LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environment Design). In 2013, MT Højgaard completed the Hurup Health Centre, which was awarded DGNB ‘Silver’ certification. We are currently building Valby Maskinfabrik, which will be completed in 2014 and will be awarded BREEAM ‘Good’ certification and the new Nordea head office on Amager (scheduled completion in 2015), which is being built to LEED ‘Platinum’ certification. We participate actively in the steering group and committee of the Green Building Council Denmark, and in 2013 we gave a number of presentations on sustainability and lifecycle costing in this and other contexts. Women in management In the Group, we do not discriminate on grounds of gender, race or religion when recruiting, training or promoting employees. At Board level, a target has been set that a minimum of 33% of the members of the Board of Directors that are elected by the shareholders in general meeting should be women, from and including the 2016 general meeting. There are currently no women among the six Board members elected at the general meeting, and a target has been set that there should be a minimum of two externally elected women in 2016. At the same time, we want to increase the proportion of women in management at other levels in the Group by introducing a number of initiatives. In the middle of 2013, the Group introduced a policy on women in management, which focuses on equal opportunities for all and endeavours to respect differences and promote a more equitable distribution of men and women at all levels. We hope to achieve this by such means as recruitment, career development and return-to-work discussions, usually in connection with maternity leave. From 2014, we expect to be able to measure the proportion of women in management across the whole Group. Future workforce We consider it important to ensure we have a qualified workforce for future construction and civil engineering projects and to help young people to receive training and pursue careers in the industry. We therefore offer apprenticeships in various skilled trades and employ rotation engineers and interns. Actions, results and objectives – future workforce In 2013, the Group had 6.3% of employees in positions as apprentices, interns and trainees. We have a target of 10% at the rate at which this is possible. To achieve this target, we at MT Højgaard will make a determined effort to raise the figure by one percentage point per annum in the coming years, depending on the economics, safety and quality of the training courses offered. Ajos works together with Lindpro on accepting apprentices for limited periods with a view to providing them with the part of their practical training that Ajos can offer. Enemærke & Petersen has policies and initiatives to support the number of apprentices, ‘seniors’ and individuals with a need for job training. Among the ways of achieving this target, Enemærke & Petersen has collaboration agreements with vocational colleges, selected housing associations, such as Boligforeningen Aarhus Omegn, and local authorities, including the City of Copenhagen to secure more apprentices. In 2014, Enemærke & Petersen will continue to work on creating apprenticeships, internships and job training places at the company’s construction sites and offices and at their Smedeland factory. Other CSR initiatives In 2013, Scandi Byg donated a holiday cottage to the association Familier med kræftramte børn (Families with Children with Cancer). The cottage was fitted out in collaboration with the association and the TopCamp Henne Strand campsite, where it was then erected. It was designed and produced at Scandi Byg’s factory in Løgstør. Enemærke & Petersen is collaborating with a technical school in Tanzania, where the company pays for the training of 12 apprentices in carpentry and bricklaying. New initiatives in 2014 Motivation and principles for our CSR work We in the Group want to further develop our CSR work as a natural, essential and integral part of our operations and activities. We therefore initiated a development project in 2013, which during 2014 is intended to lead to a revised strategy and a new CSR policy, which we expect to be able to report on in our 2014 annual report. One of the objectives of a new CSR strategy is to formalise in specific terms the Group’s position on those social issues on which we have significant influence, and to endeavour to ensure that in future the Group will be able to plan, measure and follow up on these issues at the same level and using the same systems. Membership of UN Global Compact The ten principles of the UN Global Compact have been integrated into the Group’s CSR policy since 2011. In view of this, we see it as a natural step to formally join the Global Compact in the course of 2014 and accept the commitments this implies. Setting up GRI reporting To consolidate the work of the Group as a whole on environmental, social and economic sustainability, we would like to improve our knowledge, documentation and reporting about the various areas. Corporate social responsibility is first and foremost a question of action, but we anticipate that a broader data basis and more systematic documentation will give the Group greater insight into and awareness of our impact on society. Data and documentation can be used for performance management in respect of our CSR policy and can also make our efforts more visible to internal and external stakeholders as well as the general public. We have chosen Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for our reporting standard, because it matches the Group’s requirements. The standard covers most of the relevant areas with regard to sustainability. It is a well-tested international standard, which will give the Group the chance to benchmark itself internationally against others inside and outside the industry. In addition, the organisation behind GRI has developed a set of supplementary indicators for Construction, which will also form the basis of the reporting. As a first step, we in the Group have identified a number of indicators covering environment and climate, labour market conditions, social factors and the construction industry more specifically, which will form the basis of our CSR reporting in the years to come. Work began in 2013 and by the end of 2014 we will map and develop the data basis internally with a view to being able to document and report our corporate social responsibility in relation to GRI indicators in 2015. Further development of the guidelines for suppliers and employees (Codes of Conduct) As part of the development project, in 2014 we want to review and if necessary strengthen our guidelines for sustainable conduct, which our suppliers, employees and business partners must comply with as part of their collaboration with us. The Group already has a set of guidelines, a Code of Conduct, for suppliers, which suppliers are expected to follow. The guidelines for employee conduct/behaviour are currently covered by the general conditions of employment and personnel policies, which all employees receive instruction on and have a duty to familiarise themselves with regularly and comply with in their day-to-day work. While we are updating our CSR policy, there may also be a need to explain and clarify which of the CSR guidelines employees employed by the Group or by suppliers and other business partners must comply with in order to underpin the Group’s CSR performance in their day-today work. We therefore intend to draw up a separate Code of Conduct for employees, which will be integrated into the general personnel policies. An independent code of this type will help to make all employees aware of the Group’s overall objectives in the CSR area. Whistleblowing procedure The Group’s Board of Directors has decided to implement a formal whistleblowing procedure throughout the Group. The procedure gives employees the opportunity to report wrongdoings or illegal practices such as fraud, bribery or corruption within the Group anonymously. Anonymity will ensure that an employee can report improper conduct without fear of reprisals. This may be particularly relevant if the improper conduct involves the employee’s superiors. It is crucially important for us that a whistleblowing procedure should function in conjunction with – not as a replacement for – the Group’s other HR systems, including close cooperation between employees and managers in the established joint committees. The whistleblowing procedure will be covered by clear rules and transparency. Our whistleblowing procedure will follow a model in which employees’ or business partners’ reports of wrongdoings or breach of regulations will be made to an external third party in the form of an independent law firm that will scrupulously examine the report and thoroughly evaluate the facts and documentation of the case before passing them on to the Group, who will make a decision about possible consequences. Before the introduction of the procedure, which is expected to be in mid-2014, we will therefore inform all employees, business partners, etc., about why the procedure is being brought in, what it entails, and how it can be applied. Implementation is currently awaiting approval by the Danish Data Protection Agency, who will ensure that sensitive personal information is handled and stored in conformity with the legislation.
