Statutory report on corporate social responsibility
Policy
North Media’s business units are managed and driven by
strong core values forming the basis of the Company's
policies, rules and business processes. The Group considers
corporate social responsibility a natural element of the
different business units’ strategies and daily operations.
One of North Media’s basic principles is to demonstrate
accountability to society, customers and employees. We
also aim to demonstrate fairness and loyalty in any decision
we make.
North Media regularly focuses on CSR-related matters as
much as it does on its constant efforts to strengthen working processes and products. Being accountable in all respects is an important element of the Group's values and
therefore a key element of great relevance to the Group's
vision, objectives and strategy.
This means that North Media constantly focuses on not just
complying with Danish and international rules and conventions, but also on using responsible behaviour to increase
its financial, social and environmental performance through
regular control, optimisation, operationalisation and reporting.

Pay and working conditions for the Group's
distributors of newspapers and printed matter

Results
We believe that we help our young distributors develop
basic skills such as organising one’s time and planning an
assignment by offering them a job as a distributor. Add to
this attitudinal values such as reliability and a sense of
responsibility. These are all skills that help develop them as
individuals and citizens; specific skills that they will need to
have when they begin their studies and later when they
enter the job market as adults. The distributors' sense of
responsibility is also underlined by the fact that they perform on the same level as our adult distributors.

Sickness absence
Policy
The distribution business’ policy is to put conditions in
place for a good working environment. A low frequency of
sickness absence for the packing terminals is a measure of
success in that respect.
Action
The low frequency of sickness absence is to be maintained
on the basis of continued, close staff involvement and
visible management, but also by maintaining the systematic
efforts to counter and prevent industrial accidents. Industrial injuries are always analysed by the health and safety
organisation.
Sickness

Policy
Thanks to its distribution business, North Media is one of
Denmark’s largest workplaces for young people. Working
as a distributor is often the first source of money earned
outside their home. This places heavy demands on North
Media as a business and on the organisation, systems and
procedures to ensure that each of our employees has a
positive and favourable perception of their first job.

12

10

8

6

To ensure that the employee always receives a pay reflecting the effort made on the individual route, various checks
are carried out. Their purpose is to ensure that we comply
with the working environment rules and that the distributors receive a fair pay reflecting the work they do. The
distribution business has dedicated employees, who regularly give instructions and check that North Media meets
the targets set.

Management commentary

North Media A/S

Total sickness days

4

Action
The introduction to the job is always given in dialogue with
the distributor and his or her parents. Thorough instructions and follow-up are provided, and comprehensive introduction material has been prepared, which – based on
many years of experience – is aimed at introducing the
young distributor to the job before, during and after having
done the work.

2

0
2009

2010

2011

Dansk Arbejdsgiverforening - industrial average

2012

2013

FK packing terminal

Focus is on sickness absence, and systematic follow-ups are
made on the basis of sickness interviews. In that respect,
the Company also focuses on long-term healthy employees
who have not contracted any sickness over the past 12
months.

49

Results
In recent years, sickness absence in the packing terminals has been declining, totalling 4.4 days a year for
2013 including long-term illness. This corresponds to a
sickness absence of 2.36% which is the lowest in the
history of the packing terminals and far below the industry level. The employees have an average service record
of 5.8 years and have developed a healthy and loyal
attitude, according to which high attendance is a matter
of course. Two thirds of the staff have not had one single sick day in 2013. The previous page outlines sickness
absence in the period 2009 to 2013 compared to industry figures up to 2012. Industry figures for 2013 are not
available yet.
The Company believes that the low frequency of sickness absence is important in terms of maintaining the
efficiency of the packing department as a low frequency
helps to ensure more smooth and effective production.

Integration of non-ethnic Danes
Policy
The Company’s staff policy is based on its strong core
values, which aim at providing equal opportunities to
everybody, and which require that, as a rule, everybody
must meet the same demands.
Action
A requirement for being employed is that the candidate
is able to speak and understand Danish. Employees are
also instructed to speak only in Danish at the workplace
so that everyone can understand all conversations and
no one feels left out.
Employees are treated equally in terms of gifts, parties,
etc.
Results
For example, this has led to the successful integration of
those approximately 70% of the Group’s packaging staff
who are non-ethnic Danes. As a result, the supervisory
positions are increasingly held by non-ethnic Danes,
which in itself has a cumulative effect on successful
integration.
In practice, no conflicts seem to exist in the workplace
despite the fact that people from different cultures work
together at North Media A/S.

Sub-suppliers’ consumption of newsprint
Policy
It is important for North Media A/S that the Group’s newspapers are produced following sustainable methods. This is
why the Søndagsvisen, Helsingør Dagblad and Lokalavisen
Nordsjælland newspapers have been using only FSC certified newsprint since late 2011. The FSC Certificate is a global labelling system widely supported by a number of envi-

50

ronmental organisations such as WWF, Greenpeace and
Nepenthes.

Action
North Media co-operates with some of Denmark’s largest
and best printing houses for the printing of the Group’s
newspapers. Pressens Fællesindkøb, the procurement
association of the Danish press, and the printing houses
ensure that the requirements for the traceability of newsprint, among others, are met, which is an important element of FSC certification.
The wood used to produce newsprint is from FSC-certified
forests, mainly Nordic forests, where trees are felled as
new trees start to grow. In addition, the newsprint is produced from the residues from saw mills as well as recycled
paper.

Results
Most of the newsprint already used is collected and recycled through municipal recycling systems and is thus included in the production of new newsprint. This helps reduce the environmental impact as much as possible.

Energy consumption
Policy
In 2010, North Media started the detailed process of mapping energy consumption at its domicile in Søborg. The
purpose of this mapping was to explore the possibilities of
reducing energy consumption for servers and lighting as
well as heating, ventilation and cooling systems.
Action
The Group’s buildings are generally new and fitted with low
energy lighting, and the ventilation systems have been
improved. In the past four years, the Group has focused on
consolidating its considerable server farm. In doing so, it
has decided to use low energy servers.
Technological developments have created new prospects,
particularly within ventilation, cooling and lighting. Based
on the careful mapping of energy consumption made in
2010, the Group set an ambitious goal to reduce by 2013
the total energy consumption for the Søborg premises by
30% of the 2009 consumption, equalling an annual reduction of 620 MwH in total.

Results
The calculations for 2013 show savings of approx 680 MwH
on 2009. Thus, the Group has achieved the energy reduction planned. Efforts are made to reduce energy consumption even further, but expectations are that most of the
energy reductions have been achieved.

Diversity and social inclusion policy
North Media’s objective is to be an attractive workplace to
persons with strong skills who can help develop the Group.
The overall aim of the diversity and social inclusion policy is
to ensure that all North Media employees are evaluated on

Management commentary

North Media A/S

the same terms and conditions based on their competencies. Moreover, we consider diversity a precondition for
maintaining a good and innovative working environment
and strive to have a diversified composition of staff regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, nationality, sexual orientation and age. We believe that diversity is a strength that
helps the Group attract and maintain the best talent. This is
why we are making dedicated social inclusion and diversity
efforts.
To North Media, social inclusion means that different
groups of employees are able to make a career for themselves without facing cultural or organisational barriers. We
admit that ensuring this takes a special effort. For example,
we would like to have even more women managers, and
we make an active effort to achieve this objective.
At North Media, there is a balance of male employees and
female employees. At present, the Board of Directors is
made up of four members who are all men. At executive
board level, the current members are all men. The current
number of male and women managers is five and three,
respectively.
The policy applies to the listed Parent company, North
Media A/S. The subsidiaries will be drawing up their own
policies in so far as they are subject to Danish Act no 1383
of 23 December 2012.

Increased diversity objectives and activities
North Media makes use of employee surveys and performance evaluations to identify manager potential among
group employees to develop staff and encourage skilful
employees to apply for a managerial position within the
Group. A key element of the Group’s staff development
efforts is to ensure that both male and female candidates
are considered and identified as part of internal and external recruitment of managers and that women and men
form part of the North Media Group’s pool of talents for
managerial positions.

Management commentary

North Media A/S

Further, North Media systematically uses employee surveys
and performance evaluations to identify any barriers to
men's and women's equal opportunities to pursue a managerial career.
Other measures include emphasis of equal pay for men and
women and the drawing-up of job ads appealing to women
managers.
North Media’s Board of Directors is currently made up of
four persons, who are elected for one year at a time. The
current male Board members have been carefully selected
based on their competence as well as the challenges and
development potential faced by the Group.
When, at a given moment in time, North Media decides to
add new skills to the Board of Directors, or if a Board member would like to resign, North Media will seek to have at
least 25% of the candidates for the vacant seat(s) on the
Board represent the underrepresented sex, meaning women at this point. Over the next four years, the objective is
for women to make up at least 20% of the Board of Directors. This objective is considered ambitious but also realistic.

Human rights and corruption
Policy
North Media’s staff policy is based on the Company's
strong core values that underpin the very foundation of the
Company's policies, rules and business procedures.
Based on the open corporate culture and the fact that, in
practice, the Group operates only within Denmark's borders, it was not found relevant to prepare a policy for human rights and corruption.

51

