Corporate social responsibility

Statutory account of corporate social responsibility

Aarsleff wishes to operate a responsible and sound businessin order to create job satisfaction, growth, results andprogress in accordance with the stakeholders’ expectations.We are aware that we are an integrated part ofsociety, and we wish to always comply with current norms,requirements, rules and legislation, regardless of where inthe world we operate. We respect our surroundings, and wewish to contribute to ongoing efficiency improvements ofour solutions.Our operations must comply with the Values of theAarsleff Group which are the fundamental principles of allour activities and actions.In our opinion, our efforts with corporate social responsibilityhave provided good results.Aarsleff’s Code of Conduct applies to all the companies ofthe GroupAarsleff’s Code of Conduct is the overall, ethical set of rulesapplying to the Group’s activities. The Code of Conduct issupported by the policies and guidelines of Per Aarsleff A/S,e.g.:• Values of the Aarsleff Group• Investor relations policy• Policy on handling of inside information• Anti-corruption policy• Guidelines on compliance with competition law• Sponsorship, contributions and donations for charity.To ensure a continuous development of our corporate socialresponsibility, we wish to focus on the areas below overa period of three years based on the overall policies andtargets mentioned above.Environmental considerations and climate changeadaptation, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SWe wish to support society’s interest for improvementsof the environment, e.g. by reducing energy consumptionthrough the use of environmentally friendly methods.One of our most important focus areas is to furtherdevelop our products and infrastructure projects to mitigatethe negative effects of the long-term environmentalimpact, e.g. within wastewater handling and coastal andharbour protection. An example of this is a sewer projectnear Langelinie in Odense, carried out in a partneringagreement with the utility company VCS Denmark. Here,we must allow for future climate changes in a protectedlandscape. We continuously find solutions to how we canobserve the required considerations during the rehabilitationwork. The development of our execution methods andoptimisation of our know-how take place in collaborationwith VCS Denmark.An example of some of the results achieved during thefinancial year within development of production methodsand materials is our LED curing method for trenchlesspipe renewal which applies LED light for the curing of theAarsleff Liner. This method consumes considerably lessenergy.In addition to the training which our plant drivers havecompleted with a view to reducing the fuel consumptionand thus the CO2 emission level, we have also focused onminimising the fuel consumption by replacing old machinesand purchasing new ones. As a result, we always choosethe machines with the lowest environmental impact whenthere is a choice between several machines which all complywith the required machine specifications. Consequently,during this financial year, Construction only boughtmachines with stage IIIA and IIIB engines which havereduced emission of exhaust gasses.The policy “Summary of quality, environmental andoccupational health and safety management” supports ourwork with this issue.Development of knowledge in interaction with the outsideworld, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SWe want to develop new, simple and more cost-efficientsolutions – preferably in collaboration with the customers.We wish to increase knowledge sharing with our customers

Management’s review

25

through long-term working relationships resultingin joint development of know-how. This means thatin collaboration with the customer, we focus ourefforts on method development, appropriate plansfor execution and specific customer preferences tosolutions.An example of development of knowledge incollaboration with the outside world is the partneringframework agreement on No-Dig renewalwith the utility company Aarhus Water. Here, PipeTechnologies works closely together with the clientand at semi-annual workshops, we analyse theenergy consumption and plan the execution of thework in consideration of the CO2 targets. Togetherwith Aarhus Water, we have set a target to reducethe CO2 emission by 10% before 2015. The frameworkagreement runs from 2010 to 2015 whichmeans that we must save an average of 25 tons ofCO2 per year. In collaboration with the customer,Pipe Technologies has launched different initiativesrelating to the planning of the assignments andmethods for execution. In the calendar year 2012,we have saved 34 tons of CO2.We believe that one of our social tasks is to trainyoung people: apprentices and trainees as well asskilled building operatives and engineers. We wishto develop our collaboration with the educationalinstitutions by increasing the number of traineeshipsand internships.We prioritise special training of unskilled workersby means of targeted, internal training courses,primarily within the industrialised fields of activities.As a specialised contractor within the civilengineering business, we find this development ofexpertise just as important as the apprenticeships,seen from a social perspective.During the financial year, we have had 61apprentices and trainees. We have an average of20 new employees enrolled in our internal trainingcourse for unskilled workers each year.In the coming financial year, we will implementactions plans to increase the number of apprenticesand trainees. This implies setting targets in relationto the number of employees of the respectiveemployee groups.Staff conditions, working environment and safety,applying to Per Aarsleff A/SAarsleff is certified according to the OHSAS 18001standard. We wish to offer attractive workplaceswhere a value adding working environment, jobsatisfaction and lifelong development are in focus.A safe working environment has a higher prioritythan reasons of economy.We do not accept accidents, and we do not wantto cause permanent injury to our employees –neither because they have suffered an accident noras a result of long-term physical or psychologicalimpact.The number of reportable accidents per millionworking hours is not satisfactory. Consequently,we wish to focus even more on health and safety atwork, and we have revised our occupational healthand safety policy and implemented a number ofactivities to support the policy. The revised policyhas been presented to and discussed with allmanagers, and the implementation of the policyhas been agreed on. All managers are responsiblethat the policy is communicated to the staff of theirrespective divisions. The revised occupationalhealth and safety policy became effective on 1October 2013.Management training and targets for the underrepresentedgender, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SAarsleff’s target is to continuously develop andstrengthen all management levels of the company.Internal courses of development are carried out

Management’s review

26

for current and prospective managers and combined withongoing strengthening through recruitment. During thepast financial year, 30 managers have carried out the internalmanagement development course.We have set up targets for the underrepresented genderin top management. For the other management levels, wehave formulated a policy with the purpose of increasing thenumber of women in leadership positions.Our goal is that by 2017, the share of women in the boardof directors of Per Aarsleff A/S is to constitute 25% of theshareholder-elected members. The goal is based on fourshareholder-elected members, alternatively 20% if it is fivemembers. We will always ensure that the requirements toqualifications for board members are the same, regardlessof gender, and that board members are elected on the basisof the qualifications required. The share of the underrepresentedgender in the board of directors is 0% at 30September 2013.We have formulated a policy for the other managementlevels in Per Aarsleff A/S with a view to increasing theshare of the underrepresented gender. The policy is thatwe wish to have an open and unbiased culture that allowsthe individual employee to use his/her qualifications inthe best possible way, regardless of gender. The purpose ofthis policy is to contribute to increasing the total potentialfor women in management in the business. Per AarsleffA/S operates in a male-dominated business culture. Thisis significantly reflected in the number of male and femaleemployees at all levels of the organisation.