Statutory statement of corporate social responsibilityRoblon has not come up with a structured approach to explainthe relationship between CSR and value-creating business operations,and for this reason has not adopted policies for thearea.

12 / Management’s review / Management’s review
Sustainability at Roblon
At Roblon we set the bar high in our efforts to minimize the level
of resource consumption that is included in the company’s
processes. As at other companies, our production requires a lot
of energy and this is why we are constantly trying to increase our
use of green energy alongside reducing waste as much as possible.

Since	the	planet’s	resources	are	limited,	we	at	Roblon	consider	
it	to	be	an	important	task	to	utilise	these	optimally,	so	that	we	
ensure	balance	between	growth	and	environmental	concerns.	
We	do	this	by	bringing	the	latest	knowledge	and	the	best	technologies	into	play.	We	challenge	traditional	solutions	and	use	
our	international	experience	when	handling	our	customers’	
projects	for	example.	In	this	way	sustainability	is	integrated	
into	all	solutions	to	benefit	both	our	customers	and	society	as	a	
whole.	
In	Roblon	we	regularly	optimise	our	energy	supply,	are	reducing	
our	energy	costs	and	thus	making	energy	savings.
In	2013,	Roblon	has	continued	the	effort	to	reduce	the	energy	
consumption	at	the	company’s	factories	assisted	by	internal	
and	external	energy	consultants,	with	energy	optimisation	of	

both	buildings	and	production	processes	also	taking	place.	For	
instance,	we	are	working	on	efficient	and	continuous	energy	
management	using	methods	such	as	improved	energy	utilisation	through	increased	heat	recovery	using	heat	exchangers	and	
automation.	
Roblon	is	always	in	the	process	of	developing	new	and	trendsetting	quality	products	with	a	high	level	of	innovation.	This	process	also	involves	a	high	level	of	sustainability	so	that	we	can	
offer	our	customers	the	most	efficient	energy	and	environmentally	optimised	solutions	that	create	value	for	our	customers.	
Thanks	to	Roblon’s	sustainable	production	processes	and	products,	we	are	in	a	strong	position	among	the	global	competition,	
and	with	our	climate-friendly	solutions	we	are	making	an	active	
contribution	to	promoting	sustainability	at	a	global	level.

Sustainability at Roblon / Management’s review / 29

