Corporate social responsibility
Corporate social responsibility statement
SP Group acknowledges the Group’s responsibility to contribute to a sustainable development, and SP Group recognises the correlation between
acting responsibly on the one hand and increasing the Group’s earnings
and growth on the other.
The basis of SP Group’s work with social responsibility is the UN Global
Compact – the ten principles of human rights, employee rights, environment and anti-corruption according to which the UN has listed guidelines
for companies’ work to ensure a more sustainable development. SP Group
follows the 10 principles set out in the UN Global Compact and gives an
account of the four areas in the following.
As of the beginning of 2012, SP Group’s largest subsidiary, SP Moulding
A/S, participates in the Global Compact.

Environment and climate
In accordance with the UN Global Compact, SP Group takes initiatives to
promote greater environmental responsibility and reduce the Group’s impact
on the internal and external environment, and SP Group also seeks to promote the use of more environmentally friendly technologies and materials.
It is SP Group’s strategy that all production companies must implement a
certifiable environmental management system which ensures:
t use of environment-friendly products in the production and development processes
t minimisation of waste and refuse as well as resource consumption
t recycling of materials and products to the widest extent possible
t a satisfactory working environment for the employees, prioritising safety and environmental impacts
With the substantial increase in energy and raw material prices as well
as increasing waste disposal expenses, it is financially sound to reduce
energy and raw material consumption and reduce the waste percentage.
Therefore, all plants focus on these efforts. SP Moulding’s factories have
introduced decentralised grinders on all machines to replace the central
grinders. This ensures that the remaining material from the production of
each component is grinded immediately and led down a closed system
together with the plastic material for the next component. In this way,
a larger part of the plastic material is used. Tinby has also improved the
processes so materials are now fed more effectively, which increases the
rate of use and reduces waste.

tiatives which, at some plants, have proved to reduce the resource consumption. If the duty system is changed in Denmark, a greater part of the
excess waste heat can be used for heating. During the year, large investments have been made in energy saving equipment.
In 2013, SP Group carried out tests using recycled plastics for selected
products (Plastic Wood Compound). The tests are expected to result in
commercial production during 2014. Thus, SP Group will contribute to
dramatically reducing not only its own but also others’ environmental impact.The goal is to replace wood from rain forests with plastics from sorted
household waste.
The most considerable impact on the environment occurs when SP
Group’s enterprises consume energy (particularly power) and raw materials during production and divert waste from production. The direct CO2
emission from the companies is limited, but CO2 indirectly impacts the
environment when power plants produce the power and when products
are transported from SP Group. SP Group has no direct influence on the
power plants’ production, but a substantial part of the power is purchased
from Danish plants where the power is produced from renewable energy,
primarily wind turbines. In respect of transportation, SP Group selects
partners with modern and environmentally friendly materials.
Plastics produced and used with care have a positive impact on the environment. In environmental life cycle analyses, plastics are generally superior to most alternative materials. Therefore, an increased use of plastics
will reduce the total impact on the environment.
Acid gasses, however, are produced during production of fluoroplastic
coatings, but they are removed in a flue gas scrubber before being led out
through the chimney and are therefore not a nuisance to the surroundings. The use of fluoroplastic coatings is very beneficiary to the environment in many ways. They are, for example, used as corrosion protection in
flue gas purifying plants at coal-fired power plants to avoid acid rainwater.
At the same time, the coating of surfaces with fluoroplastics generates
considerable savings on cleaning materials and solvents as well as water.
Generally, plastics are lighter than metal, and the lower weight can be
used to increase the capacity of transport equipment and, thus, reduce
fuel consumption, which is good for the environment. Obvious examples
include rolling stock like agricultural machinery, tractors, combine harvesters, buses and cars where the exterior parts can be manufactured in plastic instead of metal, and the plastic lasts for many years – even when used
outdoors – without corroding.

Every month, SP Group examines a number of key figures for consumption of energy, heating, water and raw materials in all its factories. The
results are used for internal benchmarking and to widely implement ini-

The unique insulation properties of polyurethane are used to reduce waste
of heat, for example, and to ensure environmentally friendly and efficient
district ventilating systems.

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2013 (average)

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2012 (average)

99

32

108

10

27

9

439

546

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Poland
Netherland
China
Americas

460

450
28

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Poland
Netherland
China
Americas

26

Management’s review / SP Group

29

Health and safety have been taken into account in the production processes at the individual plants.

ees, but SP Group also seeks to ease the consequences for the affected
employees by taking extra measures.

SP Group estimates that it complies with all current environmental regulations
and that no enforcement orders remain unsolved anywhere in production.

Furthermore, SP Group seeks to improve the employees’ qualifications
through supplementary training and continuing education. The goal is
to improve the qualifications of the employees to enable them to handle
different tasks, which increases production flexibility and provides varied
workdays for the individual employee. SP Group also applies the systematic roll-out of Lean processes to the plants to enable the employees to
influence their own working situation as well as processes and workflow.

A significant part of SP Group’s products (28.3% of revenue) is sold to the
cleantech industry, which uses the products for:
t reduction of energy consumption
t production of alternative energy
t purification of smoke from coal-fired power plants and petrochemical plants.

Employees
SP Group’s average staff outside Denmark increased by approx. 15.8% to
697 employees in 2013. The number of employees in Denmark decreased
from 460 to 439. Globally, SP Group’s staff increased from 1,089 at the
beginning of the year to 1,180 at year end. On average, there were 1,136
employees in SP Group in 2013. At year end, 39.3% of the staff was
employed in Denmark, and 60.7% was employed abroad. The year saw a
shift of approx. 4 percentage points. Going forward, growth is expected
to take place primarily in Eastern Europe, Asia and the USA.
SP Group complies with the principles of the International Labor Organisation’s convention and the UN Declaration on Human Rights (UNDHR). This
means that the Group will not tolerate child labour or forced labour, will not
employ minors and that any kind of discrimination in working and employment conditions is prohibited. SP Group solely recruits, appoints and promotes
employees on the basis of their qualifications and experience. The employees have the right to freely unionise, express their opinions and participate in
or elect people to participate in collective bodies. At the Danish companies,
the employees appoint representatives for joint consultation committees and
working environment committees where they meet with local management.
At the production units in Poland and China, systems have been established
where the employees appoint spokesmen for negotiations with management.
In Denmark, wages and salaries and working conditions are determined in collective agreements resulting from local negotiations. In Poland and China, the
conditions and rights of the employees are primarily stipulated by legislation,
codes and regulations. As an employer, SP Group observes national legislation
and collective agreements as well as rules governing working hours, etc., as a
minimum. Moreover, SP Group seeks to offer employees additional benefits.

The Board of Directors has determined a goal for the share of the underrepresented gender among the board members elected by the general meeting of
20% by 2017. The goal has been determined with a time frame of four years,
and at year end, the share of women on the Board of Directors was 0%.
The Board of Directors of SP Group A/S has prepared a policy in order to
increase the share of the underrepresented gender at all levels of management and to promote diversity in general. The goal is still to fill managerial
posts based on the needed qualifications but to promote diversity when
possible. The long-term goal is for the Company to reflect society and, in
particular, the Company’s customers, both in terms of gender but also in
terms of nationality and ethnicity. This reflection of society should contribute positively to the Company as an attractive company for both customers and current and future employees so that the Company will be able to
fulfil its business goals in the long term. At year-end, the share of women
in the general management (Executive Board and management team) was
25 %. Reference is made to the overview on pp. 24-25.

Fight against corruption
SP Group does not participate in corruption or bribery. Unfortunately, we are
often met with requests for secret commission or the like, which we refuse.

Continued CSR work
SP Group complies with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact
in word and action and will sign the Global Compact charter. As of the
beginning of 2012, SP Group’s largest subsidiary, SP Moulding A/S, participates in the Global Compact. The Group will still focus on further promotion of the use of environmentally friendly technologies and materials
and seek to disseminate knowledge of the unique properties of plastics.

In recent years, SP Group has closed down a number of Danish plants and
discharged employees. Such measures are regrettable but necessary to
strengthen competitiveness. In connection with comprehensive dismissals,
SP Group complies with the rules of notice and negotiations with employ-

At present, SP Group has no plans to perform extensive systematic CSR control at the Group’s suppliers of material as the majority of them are large wellreputed international groups which give a detailed account of their efforts
within corporate social responsibility in information material made available
to the public. SP Group performs CSR control at the Group’s mould suppliers.

Distribution of employees (average) 2009-2013

Distribution of employees abroad (average) 2009-2013

1,200

70

1,000

60
50

800

40

600

30

400

20

200
0
2009

30

SP Group

10
Plastic
2010

Coatings
2011

Other areas
2012

2013

0

2009

2010

2011

2012

Employees abroad – %

2013

