SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES

NOTE

Spar Nord supports the Danish Government’s endeavours to put
Corporate Social Responsibility at the top of the agenda, and we also
support the intentions underpinning international initiatives like the
UN Global Compact and UN PRI. Nevertheless, we have chosen not
to formally commit ourselves to the two UN reporting initiatives, nor
does the Bank have formal climate or human rights policies. This
decision should be viewed in light of the fact that we already endeavour to abide by the principles, and also that our activities are
very locally slanted.

SPAR NORD’S PRINCIPLES
•

Our social responsibility is business-driven –
the measures we implement must contribute
to our business.

•

Our social responsibility is the sum of local
initiatives – we work to give something back
to the local communities in which we operate.

•

Our social responsibility is well considered –
we operate and put the main emphasis on
one project at a time.

•

Our social responsibility is focused – we would
rather do one thing with single-minded purpose
than two things halfway.

•

Our social responsibility is dynamic – we evolve
and scale over time.

2010-12: GENDER & CAREER
From 2010 to 2012, we made the theme Gender & Career our special
area of focus. This particular theme was chosen because the general consensus for decades has been that gender equality leads to
better business. Thus, the theme Gender & Career harmonizes with
the ideal of business-driven social responsibility, its purpose being
to promote gender equality, to maximize talent potential regardless
of gender and to perfect the match between the Bank’s customers
and the staff and executives who advise them.
Spar Nord’s commercial target group consists of ordinary retail customers and local businesses. It is therefore desirable for the Bank
to have a broad composition of employees at both the non-executive
and executive levels. In terms of gender, this means that the Bank
aims to be an attractive workplace for both men and women, one
where harmonious interaction exists between working life and private life.

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, is something we take seriously at Spar Nord and have done for many years. However, the Bank
has traditionally translated this popular term into our own language
and reality, because experience shows that this generates better defined and more focused action.

EMPLOYEE DATA
From the point of view of Spar Nord, CSR stands for conduct in the
true sense of the word, and not abstract principles. Our basic approach is that Spar Nord’s responsibility as a company and a financial institution is anchored in our close involvement with customers
and the local community. A responsibility and an involvement that
are embedded as given elements in the Bank’s history and culture
and on which the business depends.

Employees (full-time)

2013
1,512

Of which women (%)

53

54

Of which men (%)

47

46

New appointments

64

66

Resignations

128

206

Average age (year)

45.2

45.5

Average seniority (year)

13.1

13.4

38/24

29/21

Female executives

FOCUS AND MEASUREMENT

Mid-level managers (no./%)

In order to concentrate efforts and make them explicit and measurable, we regularly single out special CSR themes. This approach is
based on our firm belief that better results are obtained by focusing
on one thing at a time. At the same time, this means that efforts
will evolve over time. We follow up the themes highlighted one year
by measuring them in subsequent years. This ensures that words
and headlines are transformed into concrete actions and tangible
improvements.

Spar Nord

2012
1,653 *)

Managing directors/executives (no./%)
Sickness absence (sector/Spar Nord)
*)

37

8/16

7/14

2.9/2.1

- /2.2

1,520 after dismissals decided in Q4 have become effective.

Annual Report 2013

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

NOTE

Recognizing that the current reality did not tally with the Bank’s
goals and intentions, Spar Nord launched a targeted action aimed at
increasing the number of women in executive positions. Thus, gender and career became a joint action area for the Group as a whole,
with action being taken both centrally and locally.

Spar Nord’s initiatives
In step with the Bank’s business model, Spar Nord has prepared
initiatives based on cooperation with primary and lower secondary
schools in the local community. The goal is to develop a series of
educational materials jointly with experts in maths and didactics
and to make them available free of charge to schools and teachers
that want to cover the subject in their lessons.

Highlights among the initiatives implemented:
•

Launch of a job bank for employees interested in a career
as an executive

•

Development and launching of an experience forum/
mentor programme targeted at executive talents

•

Evaluation of job profiles and recruitment procedures

•

Integration of gender and career in staff performance
appraisals

•

PhD project on gender and career

The first classroom material was a folder titled “Wising up on money”, which caters to children aged 13 to 15 (classes 7 to 8) and addresses topics like interest, savings, loans and currency. This educational folder has now been distributed in 45,000 copies to schools
nationwide - and has generally been received very positively.
In January 2014, we published “The Book on Money”, which targets
the youngest classes and deals with the basics required for understanding finances. The free material is not only aimed at maths
teachers but is also available at Spar Nord’s local banks for parents
who want to discuss these topics with their children. Finally, Spar
Nord’s employees offer to give guest lectures to the relevant age
brackets and to discuss the main topics contained in the material
with them.

Results
In 2013, the number and proportion of female executives dropped
from 8 to 7 and from 16% to 14%, respectively, while the number and
proportion of female mid-level managers dropped from 38 to 29 and
from 24% to 21%, respectively.
In 2013, only one vacant executive position was advertised, and there
were no female applicants.

In April, the new app “Chickenfeed” will be launched, the purpose of
which is to give kids aged 3-5 some basic understanding of money,
coins, prices, etc., via play.

2013-14: FINANCIAL INSIGHT

Targets and results
For 2013, the target was to hand out Spar Nord’s educational material “Wising up on money” to 40,000 pupils, and for a representative
cross-section of the teachers who had used the material to rate it at
no less than 4 (good) on a scale from 1-5. Both targets were met, and
similar targets have been set for 2014 - 40,000 copies/downloads
and a quality rating of at least 4 among users - for the new material
“The Book on Money” and “Chickenfeed”.

As from 2013, “Understanding finance” has been our special focus
area. We chose this theme topic because a number of surveys show
that children and young people extensively lack basic insight into
financial concepts and issues – and thus the competences required
to act and make decisions affecting one’s personal finances.
Precisely because this topic is so important, the inclusion of financial insight in school curricula has gained widespread interest both
politically and in the educational and financial sectors. This will entail a lengthy process, but Spar Nord and other financial institutions
can make a vital contribution by developing materials and making
them available.
Educationally speaking, various aspects of personal finances notably constitute a highly relevant field of instruction - particularly in
maths, but also in social sciences.

Spar Nord

38

Annual Report 2013

