CSR Report for 2013

1

Statutory CSR Report for 2013

Objective

Climate and energy

Sydbank strives to conduct its business on the basis of clients’

Continuous efforts are made to lower energy consumption and

requirements in a profitable and sustainable manner. Clients

CO2 emissions relating to the Bank’s activities.

want a decent, responsible and reliable bank. A bank with
sound values but also a solid and profitable bank. Sydbank is

In terms of energy consumption in buildings, the Bank aims to

such a bank.

be one of the best in the class. As a result ongoing initiatives
are implemented to help to reduce energy consumption, for

Sydbank is a modern bank that evolves in line with today’s

instance consumption for heating, temperature control, lighting

demands. However Sydbank also focuses on strong funda­

etc.

mental values – values that are reflected in the way we conduct
business – with the broader community, our clients, our staff

For a number of years Sydbank has sought to ensure that its

and other stakeholders. We strive in all contexts to create value

new builds and renovation projects are energy-efficient. A very

through excellence and our ability to create relationships.

significant part of the Group’s energy consumption is monitored continuously, which allows for immediate adjustments.

Responsibility

Through the measures mentioned above, the Bank aims to

Sydbank is an enterprise operating as a responsible player in

reduce its CO2 emissions.

society while respecting its business goals.
The Bank’s first solar cell system was installed in 2012 and it is
The Bank is conscious of the significant socio-economic

aimed that the share of energy consumption covered by means

responsibility that its role as finance provider, securities 	

of the Bank’s renewable energy systems will gradually increase.

trader and payment intermediary involves and this is reflected 	
in the Bank’s policies and efforts to solve tasks as rationally as

Determined efforts are made to reduce Sydbank’s use of paper,

possible.

both within the Bank as well as in customer communications.
As a result the amount of letters and printed material has been

Sydbank’s activities include reporting certain information to the

reduced considerably within a short space of time. From 2010

public authorities concerning clients’ financial circumstances. In

to 2012 the number of physical letters to clients was lowered

connection with pension savings, the Bank calculates the direct

from an average of 10 letters per year to an average of six let­

and indirect taxes payable, withdraws these amounts from cus­

ters per year. In 2014 a further reduction is projected in connec­

tomer accounts and transfers them to the authorities.

tion with the introduction of electronic signatures on the majority

Moreover the Bank has developed a set-up to prevent the Bank

of the Bank’s documents.

from being used in connection with money laundering activities
or other criminal acts.

Videoconferencing equipment has been installed at all
Sydbank’s offices and branches. Video meetings reduce time

Follow-up

and transport costs and also contribute to lowering CO2 emis­

Ongoing follow-up of results is carried out in a number of the

sions and energy consumption. This applies to the Bank’s

areas mentioned below but the Bank does not carry out a spe­

employees as well as the Bank’s clients. Clients’ increasing use

cific all-inclusive follow-up of the effects of all initiatives imple­

of the Bank’s many self-service channels also reduces energy

mented.

consumption. When equipment is purchased, energy consump­
tion represents an important parameter.

2

Staff

Sydbank signed UN PRI in September 2010 and has thereby

Also in relation to its employees Sydbank takes its corporate

made a commitment to incorporate ESG issues when selecting

social responsibility seriously.

equities and corporate bonds for our various funds.

The Bank’s staff is employed in Denmark or Germany in

How Sydbank will promote UN PRI

accordance with the collective agreements applicable within 	

Sydbank seeks to promote UN PRI by influencing the compa­

the banking area in each country. The Bank respects basic

nies invested in and with which we collaborate to contribute to

human rights.

a greater extent to globally sustainable development as well as
greater corporate social responsibility. We will urge these com­

Sydbank focuses on ensuring a good physical and mental

panies to disclose ESG issues and to implement the principles.

working environment for its employees. Concrete initiatives

And our efforts to implement the principles within Sydbank will

within stress prevention, senior policy schemes and health 	

be described in our annual reports.

promotion are some of the reasons why Sydbank is a highly
attractive place to work.

In line with its fundamental values, Sydbank does not wish to
invest in companies that violate widely accepted international

Sydbank as a workplace is characterised by

conventions and norms as formulated in for instance the UN

•	 high employee satisfaction (measured every two years)

Global Compact concerning businesses’ positions on human

•	 few work-related injuries

rights, employee rights, environmental issues and anticorrup­

•	 low sickness absence

tion.

•	 long employment relationships.
Collaboration with GES
Every year the Bank hires a number of newly qualified young

To ensure that investments made by Sydbank comply with the

employees – primarily financial economists and bachelor of

principles for responsible investment and incorporate ESG

finance graduates. On employment the new graduates typically

issues, Sydbank has engaged the services of GES Investment

receive one year’s further training in the Bank.

Services (GES).

One of Sydbank’s fundamental values is that employees must

The collaboration involves the following:

be highly skilled. This is one of the reasons why considerable
time is spent on further training.

•	 Twice a year GES screens the investments of Sydbank’s
pooled plans that invest in equities and corporate bonds

The Bank strives to achieve a more equal gender distribution in

from mature markets in order to identify the companies that

the various levels of management. This policy is available at the

do not comply with the stipulated norms.

Bank’s website. 

•	 Twice a year GES performs an extended screening of the
investments of Sydbank’s pooled plans that invest in equities

Investments

from emerging markets. This screening is identical to the

Sydbank exercises its corporate social responsibility in the

screening for the mature markets but it also involves a

investment area primarily by the way in which the assets of the

screening of investments in weapons as well as a rating of

various portfolios managed by Sydbank are invested. When

businesses’ exposure to ESG issues and their readiness to

planning the management of these assets, we attach great
importance to the fact that the companies invested in comply
with the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI).
This entails for instance:

tackle problems in this context.
•	 GES makes facilities available for a dialogue with and an
active ownership of companies that do not comply with the
stipulated norms.
•	 With respect to emerging markets, GES has an intensive

•	 that environmental, social and corporate governance 	
(ESG) issues are incorporated in investment decisions
•	 that we apply a commitment approach in relation to 	
influencing companies invested in that do not fully live 		
up to our expectations regarding ESG issues.

3

readiness and commitment programme as regards compa­
nies where it is assessed that their readiness in relation to
ESG issues is not commensurate with the potential risks
identified.

Exclusion from portfolios

directly. In addition the funds give out Sydbank’s Music Award

Our activities concerning responsible investment are based on

of DKK 350,000 which is shared between five people, namely

influencing companies through dialogue. However this may

one member of each of Denmark’s five regional symphony

mean that we will exclude companies from the investment uni­

orchestras.

verse that portfolios managed by Sydbank may invest in. This
may occur if:

Sponsorships

•	 a company’s business concept contravenes the stipulated

ciation activities in the entire market area. A large number of

The Bank is actively involved in sports activities and local asso­
norms and it is judged that this cannot be changed – 	

sponsorships are nurtured locally and regionally – not least

examples of this are companies that violate international

amateur associations. Furthermore Sydbank gives donations to

conventions such as the production of cluster bombs and

selected charitable organisations working in the poorest areas

land mines

of the world.

•	 a company does not comply with the stipulated norms 		
and does not wish to initiate a dialogue
•	 there is no indication of sufficient progress in concrete 	

The purpose of Sydbank’s sponsorships is to show that Sydbank
is a bank that focuses on providing local support and that helps

measures by a company that does not comply with the 	

to create and enhance an active leisure life and cultural life in

stipulated norms and with which dialogue has been initiated.

individual market areas. This also supports Sydbank’s market­
ing profile as a nationwide bank with strong and distinct local

Sydbank has set up a committee that decides which compa­

roots. In addition Sydbank gives sponsorships that can contrib­

nies are to be excluded from the investment universe.

ute to reinforcing relationships to significant business partners
nationally as well as in the market areas where we operate. On

Relationship with the outside world

a national level sponsorships are also used to increase knowl­

Sydbank is a relationship bank. This means that Sydbank

edge about Sydbank as a business.

attaches great importance to creating and building on a good
relationship with clients, business partners as well as society at

Moreover Sydbank initiates ongoing activities to promote 	

large. It is important for Sydbank to be an active player in the

financial literacy among clients and society in general. For

local communities where we conduct business.

instance, Sydbank’s branch in Sønderborg has visited local
schools and given talks to students on personal finance and

We seek to accomplish this by focusing our efforts on our rela­

budgets.

tionship to the society of which we are a part. Sydbank spon­
sors a wide variety of activities, nationally and in local communi­

Taxation

ties, but the donations from Sydbank’s funds also contribute to

Unlike the majority of businesses, banks are required to pay

Sydbank’s active involvement in society.

payroll tax in addition to corporation tax. Payroll tax is calculat­
ed on the basis of salaries, pensions etc paid. Moreover banks

Sydbank’s funds

carry the additional burden of only being entitled to a partial VAT

SydbankFonden and Sydbank Sønderjyllandsfond support cul­

deduction on purchases, services etc.

tural and general interest activities in Denmark and South
Schleswig. In addition the funds support public benefit activities

Taxes paid by the Bank/non-deductible VAT in 2013:

in areas where the Bank operates. Sydbank’s funds are often
publicly referred to collectively as SydbankFonden.
Applications to the funds can be made in accordance with the
articles of association and charitable purposes which form the
basis of the funds. The articles of association can be read in
their entirety on Sydbank’s website under www.sydbank.dk/
fonden (in Danish only).
Sydbank’s funds give away a total of around DKK 4 million
every year, including approx 60 travel grants of DKK 10,000 to
young students. The travel grants are given in collaboration with
specific educational institutions and cannot be applied for

4

DKKm		2013
Corporation tax		

199

Payroll tax		

112

Non-deductible tax		

92

Total		403

