DIRECTORS’ REPORT - CONTINUED

Corporate Social Responsibility
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy
Atlantic Petroleum’s culture and operating activities are conducted with a high priority for ethical standards.
Being a responsible company in all of our operations is an integral part of Atlantic Petroleum and we continue
to implement high ethical and practical standards in all our activities.
Atlantic Petroleum is committed to the review and continuous improvement of corporate social responsibility
and environment, health and safety performance. To meet these commitments, we will operate in accordance
with the following principles:
Conduct our business activity in compliance with the law.
Act openly and honestly in business dealings.
Comply with best practice in our corporate governance.
Behave responsibly and with sensitivity to local communities in all areas where we operate.
Provide sustainable benefits and avoid the creation of a dependency culture.
Integrate CSR and EHS responsibility throughout our activities.
Recognise that all parties working on Atlantic Petroleum’s behalf can impact our operation and
reputation and that we all share a common responsibility.
Ensure, wherever possible, that our partners’ approach to CSR is compliant with our own standards.
Monitor and review our CSR and EHS policies and procedures as appropriate to ensure suitability and
effectiveness.
Use continuous assessment to ensure our CSR activities meet identified performance objectives.
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy
Atlantic Petroleum’s activities are undertaken with integrity, responsibility and respect for the environment and
the community in which these activities take place. This entails conducting operations in an ethically and
practically sound manner that minimises risks and places high priority on the safety of those involved in Atlantic
Petroleum’s oil and gas operations.

Atlantic Petroleum is committed to:
Comply with all applicable Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) laws, regulations and standards and
to apply responsible standards where legislation is inadequate or does not exist.
A systematic framework of hazard identification and risk assessment through which safe operations
can be managed.

P/F Atlantic Petroleum

Annual and Consolidated Report and Accounts 2016 Released.docx Issued 29th March 2017

15/80

DIRECTORS’ REPORT - CONTINUED

Develop effective EHS management systems to identify and manage risks associated with its activities
by focusing on risk avoidance and prevention.
Establish accountability and responsibility for EHS within organisational line management.
Provide training, equipment and facilities necessary to maintain a safe and healthy worksite.
Practice pollution prevention and seek viable ways to minimize the environmental impact of operations,
reduce waste, conserve resources and respect biodiversity.
Protect and minimise any harm to the environment in our oil and gas activities, and continuously focus
on improving our environmental procedures.
Monitor and review our CSR and EHS policies and procedures as appropriate to ensure suitability and
effectiveness.
Ensure that partners and contractors’ policies and activities are compliant with our own standards, and
recognise that all working on our behalf can impact our operation and reputation and that we all share
a common responsibility for our safety.

Annual and Consolidated Report and Accounts 2016 Released.docx Issued 29th March 2017

16/80

