BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

C O R P O R AT E

SOCIAL

RESPONSIBILITY
2016/17

2

LETTER
FROM CEO

In Bang & Olufsen, we value CSR as a fundamental element and a key driver
for achieving our results in a sustainable way. We believe in collaborating with
our external stakeholders to help maintain focus on our CSR areas in the daily
business. Thereby, CSR is embedded throughout the organisation as an overall
umbrella.
Our values are also the cornerstones in our daily business, fuelling both decisions and practices when designing, creating and selling our unique products
and when collaborating with stakeholders. In the coming years, CSR will be
even more important as our business expands with external partnerships as
well as grows in size and in that respect, CSR activities will be initiated to reflect this future development.
We want to create a corporate culture that values CSR by pursuing initiatives
in the areas included in our CSR work and hereby contributing to building a
more sustainable world and protecting both employees and human rights.
The 2016/17 CSR report documents our progress on the CSR objectives for the
current year as well as outlining our CSR objectives for the next financial year.

CONTENTS
Letter from management	

2

About Bang & Olufsen	
• Business units

4
5

CSR in Bang & Olufsen	
• Human rights
• Employee rights
• Environment and climate
• Anti-corruption

6
8
9
10
12

CSR activities in Bang & Olufsen in 2016/17	

14

Planned CSR activities and objectives in 2017/18	

16

ABOUT THIS REPORT
This report provides a status on Bang & Olufsen’s work within the area of Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR) for the financial year of 2016/2017 and thereby fulfils the
reporting requirements set out in section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act
(Årsregnskabsloven). It is our intention that the report will provide insight and understanding of the scope of our CSR work, and how these activities are an integrated
part of the day-to-day business of our company.

4

ABOUT BANG & OLUFSEN
Bang & Olufsen was founded in Struer, Denmark, in 1925 by Peter Bang and Svend
Olufsen, two innovative, young engineers devoted to developing functional and beautiful high-quality audio products.
This remains the foundation for the company and over the last 90 years,
Bang & Olufsen has developed its expertise through practice and cooperation
with external partners. The long-standing craftsmanship tradition and the strong
commitment to innovation and development have made the brand globallyrenowned for its core capabilities within acoustics, design and craftsmanship.

Today, Bang & Olufsen’s product portfolio epitomises seamless media experiences
in the home and on the move, for the family and for the individual.

Employees: More
than 1,100 people

Products sold in more
than 70 countries

Bang & Olufsen’s shares
are listed on NASDAQ
Copenhagen

Revenue in 2016/17
2,954

BUSINESS UNITS
Bang & Olufsen operates within two business units; Bang & Olufsen and B&O PLAY.
The Bang & Olufsen business unit comprises audio and video products and is sold in more than 600 Bang & Olufsen branded stores around
the world.
The B&O PLAY business unit delivers headphones and portable audio systems distributed through Bang & Olufsen branded stores and
third-party retailers as well as online.
The business units are complemented by brand licensing partnerships with some of the largest and most innovative companies in the world.
These partnerships represent an important platform for exposing potential customers to the brand and the core capabilities of the company.
Listed company
At the end of the financial year, Bang & Olufsen employed more than 1,100 people and the company’s products are currently sold in more
than 70 countries across the world. Bang & Olufsen’s shares are listed on NASDAQ Copenhagen A/S.

5

CSR IN BANG & OLUFSEN
In Bang & Olufsen, we value CSR as a
fundamental element and a key driver
for achieving results in a sustainable
way. As the business expands to new
corners of the world, and thereby creating new partnerships, CSR is becoming even more important.

our Anti-Corruption policy, our Slavery and Human Trafficking statement,
our Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics and Supplier Code of Conduct,
which contain Bang & Olufsen’s CSR
requirements to our suppliers as well
as guidelines to our employees.

We recognise the UN and ILO declarations regarding human rights, labour
rights, environment and anti-corruption. Consequently, we have chosen to
structure our CSR effort, including the
CSR policy, in accordance with the UN
Global Compact guidelines.

Our CSR framework that was introduced last year builds on the
above-mentioned policies, making sure
that we define the right objectives in
order to focus on our risk areas. The
framework presents ‘Focus and risks’
within the policy areas that are introduced to help our surroundings understand the relevance to Bang & Olufsen’s
business activities. It also presents the
actions within the individual policy areas, along with the results of the targets. The framework displays our dynamic CSR approach, because the risks
and focus areas can be revised and the
actions amended accordingly, when we
assess the achieved results.

We believe in a result-oriented and
pragmatic CSR approach, where CSR
activities is fully integrated in our way
of thinking and way of working, and
consequently, we work with CSR systematically and within the framework
of the Danish Financial Act section 99
on CSR. Our CSR policy covers the
common CSR policy areas according
to the above-mentioned international
standards. The CSR policy is relatively
fixed from year to year and is presented in the section ‘Bang & Olufsen’s
CSR Policy’. The policy is supported by

Figure 1: The CSR framework in Bang & Olufsen. The
framework includes a relatively static policy section
whereas the CSR activities are dynamic and agreed
yearly in the CSR Steering Committee. The committee
includes the CFO, VP, Global General Counsel, Head of
Operations, Senior Director Global Quality, and VP HR.

6

BANG & OLUFSEN’S CSR POLICY
The purpose of Bang & Olufsen’s CSR policy is to state the guidelines for our Corporate Social Responsibility activities
within the framework of our business. The policy is divided into four main policy areas: Human Rights, Labour Rights,
Environment and Anti-corruption. Each issue has a specific action plan to ensure continual improvement.
Bang & Olufsen commits to ensuring compliance both within our organisation as well as for partners and suppliers.
Under each policy area, we have adopted individual policies to support our CSR policy: Anti-corruption policy, Slavery
and Human Trafficking statement, Code of Business Conduct, and Ethics and Supplier code of conduct.

HUMAN RIGHTS

Bang & Olufsen commits, in all matters
within the Group’s control, to supporting
and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS

Bang & Olufsen commits to showing the
greatest degree of social responsibility
towards our employees. Bang & Olufsen
supports the abolition of child labour and
forced labour, and condemns discrimination
in employment and occupation.
Bang & Olufsen attaches great importance
to freedom of association and recognises
the right to collective bargaining.
Bang & Olufsen commits to being a tolerant
workplace where each employee thrives and
has the possibility to develop and create a
good work-life balance.
ANTI-CORRUPTION

Bang & Olufsen strongly disassociates
itself from all kinds of corruption, including
ex-tortion, bribery, and facilitation
payments. We are committed to
conducting our business operations around
the world in an honest, fair, transparent
and ethical manner.

Reports of breaches to the policy will be
investigated thoroughly and appropriate
actions will be taken based on such investigation.
Bang & Olufsen is subject to serious criminal
and civil penalties for breaches of applicable anti-corruption laws. Consequently, any
employee who breaches the Anti-Corruption policy may be subject to criminal and/
or civil penalties, including imprisonment
and very substantial fines, which will not be
reimbursed by Bang & Olufsen. In addition,
any employee who breaches the policy may
be subject to disciplinary action by Bang &
Olufsen, up to and including termination of
their contract of employment.

As a responsible company, Bang & Olufsen
commits to creating sustainable products.
The considerations involved in the operation, design, and longevity of our products
must be in mutual balance with the environmental impact of production. Bang &
Olufsen complies with existing legislation
in the countries where we produce and sell
our products.
More specifically, we aim to focus on the areas where the right balance between effort
and impact can be achieved:
•
•

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE

Bang & Olufsen has an integrated thinking
with regard to the environmental consequences that our production and products
have on our employees, customers and the
environment. This means that we include
the aspects of environment, working environment and product environment in the
production and in the products. We use the
word “environment” broadly to cover the areas of work environment, product environment and external environment, and these
areas are all integrated in the production.

•

•

Improve the work environment and the
health and safety conditions of our employees
Prevent work related illnesses and/or
injuries
Improve and prevent negative environmental impact from our production and
products, including reduction of climate
impact.
Prevent negative environmental and
climate impact from use of products as
well as maintain high focus on developing sustainable products.

7
HUMAN RIGHTS
In Bang & Olufsen, we respect internationally
recognised labour rights and we follow national
requirements for labour practices.
Focus and risks:
Collective agreement for employees
Bang & Olufsen’s business activities generate a
demand for products and services from global
suppliers. We acknowledge the responsibility for
human rights in the business activities that we
generate both locally and globally, and we are
committed to avoid any use of child labour and
forced labour in our supply chains.

Actions:
In 2016/17, Bang & Olufsen has conducted supplier
assessments and in addition, suppliers have signed
our Supplier Code of Conduct. Based on an updated risk assessment of our supply base and the
risk of business and country, actions were taken
accordingly.	
Results:
During our risk assessment, we selected 25 suppliers to perform self-assessments. Of the 25 self-assessments 9 were Asia-based suppliers and 16
were from suppliers based in Eastern Europe. All
25 self-assessments were in-line with our expectations and did not lead to further actions. However, we have planned an independent audit at one
Eastern European supplier to test the system.

8
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
In Bang & Olufsen, we are committed to providing
safe and healthy working conditions for the more
than 1,100 employees around the world
Focus and risks:
Employee health & life balance
As part of our effort to be a good, attractive place
of work for top-class employees, it is essential for
us that our employees thrive in the company, work
on exciting, challenging assignments, and that
management provides the necessary guidance and
support if and when required. Bang & Olufsen recognises that there are many factors affecting the
overall well-being of our employees, and that both
private and personal factors may play a role.
Actions:
To reduce the number of long-term sickness cases
(full and part time) caused by psychological work
environment, the following activities have been
conducted:
•
•

Pro-active follow-up on stress cases and
development of individual action plans for
how to return to work.
Training of leaders in feedback and IDP processes to enable leaders to better handle employees with stress signals

Results:
We have reduced the number of long-term sickness cases from 19 last year to 4 this year, with an
objective to reduce the number to 0.

4

9
ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE
In Bang & Olufsen, we place great emphasis on the occupational health and safety of our employees. Our aim is to create a safe and
healthy working environment – both physical and psychological – for our employees. Bang & Olufsen strives to adapt workplaces to
suit the employees, not the other way around. For this reason, occupational health and safety aspects are taken into consideration as
early as in the design and development phase, because the choices of for instance materials, joining methods and surface treatment
options made by product developers often have a major impact on occupational health and safety in the production phase.
Focus and risks: Zero accidents
Being a manufacturer of consumer electronics including a production site and employee offices, Bang & Olufsen strives to avoid any
exposure to risks, which may cause accidents at work. In Bang & Olufsen, we want to foster a culture where employees each day can
come home safe to their families and return to work the next day. Safety has a high priority across the organisation. We want to reduce the number of injuries, and thereby secure the well-being of our employees.
Actions:
Bang & Olufsens environmental groups have each selected 3 focus areas (objective and activities) with pertaining
objectives and activities. Status of these focus areas are
followed up each quarter in the environmental group and
environment committee and best practice is shared across
areas.
Results:
With 10 accidents with absence in 2016/17 DK (4) and in
CZ (6), we did not reach the goal for accident frequency
and accident severity. 3 of the accidents in CZ were
caused by sudden black ice, causing long-term absence of
3 employees.
All accidents were immediately analysed, followed by a socalled care conversation between the injured, the environmental group and the direct manager. The injury and the accident are then analysed while inspecting the scene. A root
cause analysis is conducted to clarify the underlying causes.
Afterwards, decisions are made which activities are needed
to prevent a similar accident. In addition, the manager and
the injured person review opportunities to resume work as
well as light duties in a period. We consider it highly important that the injured person is still associated with his workplace and colleagues.

10
Focus and risks: Energy savings in facility
Bang & Olufsen wants to maintain high focus on developing sustainable products and improve and prevent negative environmental and climate impact from our production and products..
Bang & Olufsens primary environmental impact is:
Water used for sanitary and production purposes primary in the anodising plant from our anodisering proces
Waste where the main part is aluminium waste. In general, 77% of all waste is recycled
Waste water primary from the anodisering proces is pre-cleansed and sent to the municipal purification plant
Disposal of worn-out products (product takeback and producer responsibility) is collected and processed by an approved waste handler
Polution and external noise from the production. Bang & Olufsen always enters into dialogue with the regulatory authorities with an aim to
find the best solutions and thereby minimising pollution as much as possible.
Energy in our production is pointed out as our largest environment impact contributor. We strive to run a sustainable production where energy reduction in our facilities is an important target.
Actions:
To optimise energy savings in facilities, the following activities have been
conducted:
•
•

To upgrade the environmental standard ISO 14001 to the 2015 version
To conduct energy optimisation projects with 59 tonnes CO2 reduction
equivalent to 204.684 kWh. Measured on project level (improvement)

Results:
In 2017, we upgraded ISO 14001; 2015 with only 1 minor deviation. Great
praise was given to the organisation and the employees for our way of
thinking environment into our processes as well as our commitment and
openness.
We have conducted 6 energy saving projects both in DK and CZ:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Change to LED light in the Plastic molding area and assembly in the
production area
Production managers and coordinators has been trained in behavior
and attitude to use light in the production line
Heat from air compressor used for warehouse heating has been implemented
Skylight replacement in Innovation Center Struer
A new compressor with inverter has been implemented
Energy optimisation (ventilation) in adhesives area

We reached the energy goal for 2016/17. The overall result for the reduction is: 251.247 kWh equivalent to 76 tonnes CO2.

11
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Focus and risks
In Bang & Olufsen, we are committed to conducting all of our business operations around the world in an honest, fair, transparent and ethical
manner. Our policy is to comply with all applicable anti-corruption laws and not to engage in any corrupt activity. We do not accept any kind
of corruption and/or bribery in or in connection with our business activities.
At Bang & Olufsen, we do not tolerate the acceptance, offering, promising or paying of bribes of any kind. We may only give or accept gifts,
meals or other things of value if these are within a reasonable level and have a specific and legitimate business purpose in accordance with
our Anti-Corruption policy.
Furthermore, we are committed to conducting our business activities
with the highest standards of ethics and professionalism. We believe
that acting responsibly and fairly are important factors in achieving
long-term business success, and always maintain the highest standards of integrity, safety and fairness.
In Bang & Olufsen, we expect our employees to adhere to core values
such as integrity, fairness and honesty. Safeguarding the reputation of
Bang & Olufsen and complying with governmental laws or regulations,
as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the responsibility of every employee and director.
Our newly adopted internal policies are designed to help employees
resolve day-to-day ethical dilemmas, such as situations involving anti-corruption, confidentiality, the misuse of company assets for personal advantage and the rules regarding donations and gifts.
To ensure compliance with company policies, we have established a
whistleblower system, which encourages and enables our staff members to report immediately any questionable actions or activities that
may involve criminal conduct or violations of our company policies
and guidelines, either through internal channels or through the
Bang & Olufsen whistleblower hotline.
The whistleblower hotline system is confidential and employees can
choose to remain anonymous when reporting incidents through the
hotline. The hotline is managed by an independent third party to ensure the highest level of security and confidentiality.

12
Actions:
Compliance programme

Two specific actions have been selected within
the anti-corruption policy area. The first was to
set up compliance programme for certain retail partners and other agents with the overall
objective of having partners and other agents
certify compliance with the newly established
Anti-Corruption policy. By the end of 2016/17,
the target was to have 70% of the retail partners
and other agents certified.	
Anti-corruption training

The second action was to conduct anti-corruption training. The overall objective was to
establish on-line training programme for all employees with commercial responsibility, and to
ensure and track that all such employees conduct the training as planned.	
Results:

Compliance programme

In this are we reached our target this year, as
74% of agents and commercial partners acting
on our behalf certified compliance with Bang &
Olufsen’s Anti-Corruption policy. We are satisfied that such a high number of agents acting
on our behalf are able to certify compliance.
Anti-corruption training

On the training of employees, we also reached
our target this year. Mandatory e-learning training on anti-corruption laws was rolled out to
500 employees with commercial responsibility
in Bang & Olufsen. This training will enable the
organisation to better understand our policies
and feel comfortable with how to act if a situation in this area arises.

CSR ACTIVITIES IN BANG & OLUFSEN IN 2016/17
Policy area
Human rights &
Employee rights

Topic

Collective agreement
for employees (Suppliers and contractors)

Objectives

Risk-assessment of supplier base to identify audit needs. Conduct CSR audits and follow-up accordingly.

Target
status

Actual results
The objective was met as we received 25 self-assessments out
of 25. The number of suppliers were selected based on our
Top40. The remaining 15 suppliers have already been evaluated in the previous years.
In addition, one supplier was randomly selected for audit to be
carried out this Summer.
The objective was met as the number was reduced from 19 to
2 and the target was 10.

Employee health &
life balance

Reduce number of long-term sickness cases (full and part time)
caused by psychological work environment

Act: 19 (15/16; All employees in DK)
Target: 10 (16/17)
Result 4

Environment and
climate

The objective was not met as the result was 4.2 in accident
Accident frequency must not exceed 2.5 (number of accidents
per 1 million working hours) which is a 5% reduction compared
to 2015/16 (Target <2.5)

frequency due to an increase in the number of accidents. 3
accidents were caused by black ice. As we want to secure
the well-being of our employees, the long-term objective is
zero accidents

Zero accidents
Accident severity must not exceed 0.203 (the number of hours
of absence per 1,000 working hours), which is a 5% reduction
compared to 2015/16 (Target <0.203).

The objective was not met as the result was 1.351 compared
to 0.203. The accidents, caused by sudden black ice have
resulted in long-term absence.

Energy savings in
facilities

Energy optimisation projects with 59 tons CO2 reduction
equivalent to 204,684 kWh.
Measured on project level (improvement)

Anti-corruption

This objective was met as the reduction was 251.247 kWh
equivalent to 76 tonnes CO2. The increased reduction was a
result of 6 energy saving projects both in DK and CZ.
The objective for 2016/17 has been met as 74% of agents

Set up compliance
programme for retail
partners and other
agents

The overall objective is that retail partners and other agents
certify compliance with the newly established Anti-Corruption
policy. By the end of 2016/17, the target is to have 70% of the
retail partners and other agents certified.

Anti-corruption training

Establish on-line training programme for all employees with
commercial responsibility. Ensure and track that all such employees conduct the training as planned.

and commercial partners acting on our behalf has certified
compli-ance with the company’s Anti-corruption policy.
The long-term objective is to ensure that 100% of agents and
commercial partners acting on our behalf certifies compliance
in relation of our Anti-coruption policy.
The objective for 2016/17 has been met as mandatory online
training has been established and rolled out to all 500 employees with commercial responsibilities.

14
OTHER CSR RELATED ACTIVITIES IN 2016/17
Children’s learning and creativity in the municipality

Bang & Olufsen has partnered with Struer Municipality in order to support children’s
learning and creativity in the municipality through sound. In that connection, each of
Struer’s schools and day care centers have received two Beoplay A2.
The wireless speakers for the schools and day care centers will be instrumental in encouraging the children’s interest in sound, hopefully resulting in plenty of innovative
children interested in sound. The initiative is part of project Struer – the City of Sound.
From refugee to skilled worker

The industry needs more skilled workers, and young refugees and family reunified persons need integration and jobs. This is the reason why Bang & Olufsen have joined the
project “From refugee to skilled worker”. The aim of the project is to assist young refugees and family reunified persons in getting an education and a job.
Bang & Olufsen had 2 refugees from Syria in a four-week traineeship in Struer, and
subsequently, one has been offered an apprenticeship contract.
Ambitious training programme strengthens competencies

Five quality assistants and one quality technician from the Mechanical Factory in Struer have completed an ambitious training programme to strengthen the competencies
and ensure more cross-functional cooperation between the areas. The goal was that
both skilled and unskilled employees were given the opportunity to acquire more
competencies and thereby be able to solve tasks with less risk of deterioration while
at the same time achieving greater job security. Both the employees and the company
are very pleased with the outcome and the they have come home with useful tools
that can ensure a more structures way of working. The training programme was funded by The Fund for Better Working Environment and Labour Retention

PLANNED CSR ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES IN 2017/18
In 2017/18, we will continue our CSR effort to improve the working environment and
reduce the environmental impact of activities through these newly established objectives.
Policy area
Human rights &
Employee rights

Topic

Objectives

Collective agreement for
employees (Suppliers and
contractors)

Risk-assessment of supplier base to identify audit
needs. Conduct CSR audits and follow up accordingly.

Employee health & life
balance

Reduce number of long-term sickness cases (full and
part time) caused by psychological work environment.

Zero accidents

Accident frequency: 5% reduction compared to 2016/17
Accident severity: 5% reduction compared to 2016/17

Environment and
climate

Business integrity

Energy savings in facilities

Energy optimisation project with 591,4 tonnes CO2
reduction equivalent to 2.517.057 kWh. Measured on
project level (Improvement). Impact 2017/18: 259
tonnes CO2 reduction equivalent to 1.088.349 kWh.

Affirm commitment on
business integrity and
maintain and reinforce a
strong compliance culture
within anti-competitive
practices

All employees within the sales organisation to complete
antitrust training

Supplier audit on compliance with anti-corruption
laws

Receive certification from top 20 suppliers of
compli-ance with the Anti-corruption policy

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

2016/17

15

