CSR REPORT
2015/16

Gabriel
Holding A/S

Infinity upolstehed on KIPU from Lapalma. Designed by Anderssen & Voll.

Hjulmagervej 55
9000 Aalborg
CVR nr. 58 86 87 28

CSR Report 2015/16

MAKING SENSE OF BUSINESS

­
MISSION
Anders Hedegaard Petersen

Innovation and value-adding partnerships are
­fundamental values of Gabriel’s mission statement.
Gabriel is a niche company which, in the ­entire
­value chain from concept to furniture user,
­develops, manufactures and sells upholstery
­fabrics, components, upholstered surfaces and
related products and services.

In the Gabriel Group, we believe that the true purpose of our
business is to create long-term growth while creating value for
customers, users, partners and employees, acting responsibly
towards the environment, and making a difference to the communities we are part of. It is at the core of the business and a
strong strategic driver.

Gabriel develops its services to be used in fields
of application where product features, design and
logistics have to meet invariable requirements, and
where quality and corporate social responsibility
must be documented.

To succeed in creating value, the company depends on dedicated employees. To ensure strong employee commitment, the
company strives hard to create meaningful jobs, a strong sense
of purpose and motivating work environments.
This CSR Report reflects our commitment to run a profitable
business while contributing to solving broader challenges that
impact each and every one of us.

Kurt Nedergaard

The Gabriel Group is committed to transparent reporting and
are pleased to present a new and more easily accessible CSR
Report. The report is aimed at our primary customers and at
everyone with an interest in Gabriel – from partners and suppliers to i­nvestors and employees. This report is an invitation
to further co-operation, and we hope to inspire our customers
to engage directly with us to create further improvements and
activities together.
At Gabriel, we are aware that CSR is a never-ending challenge.
We take on our responsibility by ­continuing to raise the bar and
striving to stay at the forefront. We do it, because it makes sense
for our users and business, for our people and partners – and
not least for the planet.
Please join us in our quest for a higher purpose

We are pleased to share with you:
∙∙ Our CSR values and efforts.
∙∙ Our objectives and how the Group aims to make further
improvements.
∙∙ An overview of the progress we have made.
∙∙ Insight into some of the challenges we are facing.

Anders Hedegaard Petersen		
CEO				

Kurt Nederggard
Director of CSR & Quality

­
We invite you to offer your comments on this report and welcome any enquiries. Please contact:
∙∙ Kurt Nedergaard, Director of CSR & Quality: kn@gabriel.dk /+45 2324 2311
∙∙ QEP-Master: qep@gabriel.dk
∙∙ Or any other member of the Gabriel team who will help you find the answers you are looking for.
Please refer to the Annual Report 2015/16, Gabriel Profile and www.gabriel.dk for further information
about the Gabriel Group.

Upholstered with Rhythm.

2

For the sake of the environment, this CSR Report is only available online.

3

A STRONG SENSE OF PRIDE AND PURPOSE

Gabriel was the first company in the upholstery fabric industry to
significantly improve its environmental performance and gain a
range of environmental certifications.

Every day at Gabriel, dedicated employees create ­superior customer experiences. They are making a difference, they are creating
value, and they are going the extra mile. This makes everybody
proud and acutely aware of the fact that the employees are the
heart and soul of the company.

team members are met by employees who have been working
with Gabriel for years, and who all have the same story to tell:
A story about an organisation, curious by nature, always on the
lookout for new opportunities, new inspiration and new markets
without ever compromising its high ethical standards.

We know that motivated employees improve customer experiences, and that the company can only succeed if the employees
go to work happy, proud of what they do and with a strong
sense of purpose. Consequently, the Gabriel Group continuously seeks to create positive and open work environments for
our employees to thrive.

­

The improvements covered a wide range of processes – from
­eliminating heavy metals in dyeing procedures to introducing quality
and environmental management systems and adopting the product
labels Oeko-Tex, the EU Ecolabel and Cradle to CradleTM certified.
The Gabriel Group continues to do progress and delivers solid
growth in both revenue and profit. Within the last year, we have
moved closer to our customers with new sales offices in Stockholm,
Paris and Grand Rapids (Michigan, USA). FurnMaster­units have
been certified according to ISO 9001, and six new fabrics have
been launched.
In addition, the Group management have been strengthened by
including the CFO and CCO in the top management of Gabriel
Holding A/S and by establishing two new executive positions – a
Creative Director and a Director of CSR & Quality.
Today, the Gabriel Group is more committed to CSR than ever
before, and with new insights and technologies it is possible for
us to achieve even further improvements and continue the race
to the top.

In addition, the company cultivates a strong sense of solidarity,
we have fun, and we challenge each other – no matter where
in the world we work. Every day organisational boundaries are
crossed to help each other out and to learn from each other.
Crossing borders creates understanding, respect and humility
towards our colleagues and the work they do.
The Gabriel Group is rapidly growing and so is the team of
employees. All new employees are given a warm welcome and
meaningful job responsibilities from their first day at work. New

CSR Report 2015/16

A RACE TO THE TOP

KEEP MOVING FORWARD
∙∙ All new colleagues will always be properly
­introduced to Gabriel and our core values.
∙∙ Initiatives to ensure superior employee
­motivation and a strong sense of purpose
is a continued focus.
∙∙ A good working environment across all
­business units and regions must always
be provided.

The process of achieving improvements has, however, become
more and more complex. Every company has to look far beyond
their own backyard, focus on the entire value chain and co-operate
with a wide range of stakeholders - from global supply chain partners to customers, NGOs and knowledge institutions.
To simplify the process, Gabriel has established a CSR Academy.
The purpose of the academy is to educate about CSR, break down
organisational boundaries, and to ensure that all stakeholders share
the same values and work towards common goals.
Please come and join us!

­
KEEP MOVING FORWARD
∙∙ The entire Gabriel Group wants to work even
closer with our ­customers to find out how our
CSR ­programme can support customers’ sales
and value creation processes.
∙∙ Within the next year, it will be defined how we
can support the new Sustainable Development
Goals of the United Nations.

Go Couture, Go Check and Go Uni
– the only Cradle to CradleTM Certified
upholstery fabrics made from Trevira CS.

4

∙∙ The process of certifying all Gabriel business
units in the areas of q
­ uality, environment, work
environment and CSR will continue.
Members of the Gabriel team.

5

CSR Report 2015/16

CREATING SUPERIOR FUNCTIONAL AND EMOTIONAL VALUE
Gabriel is the furniture industry’s preferred development partner
and supplier of upholstery fabrics, components and related
­products and services. It is a position earned over the years by
our ability to create superior functional and emotional value for
our customers – and for the end users.

and approval process, before being allowed in the products.
Gabriel rejects all types of chemicals, if we are not convinced
that they are harmless to both humans and the environment.

Our products and services are used in fields of application where
demands are high. Product features, design and logistics have to
meet invariable requirements, and quality and CSR must be documented. There is no cutting corners, and the standards within
the industry are continuously raised to meet customer and consumer expectations. Gabriel believes that intensive co-operation
with key account customers ensures continuous optimisation of
products and services. Customer satisfaction surveys are regularly performed and used for creating continuous improvement.

At Gabriel, we document our environmental performance to
ensure that our customers have all the information they need to
make environmentally sound choices. As consumer demands
for safe and sustainable products increase, transparency creates
credibility – all the way to the end user.

Creating comfortable and safe indoor environments
At Gabriel, our main goal is to help our customers succeed in
delivering great looking and highly functional furniture to happy
consumers. Consequently, consumer health and safety is one of
the key focus areas.
Many people spend the majority of their time indoors, and a good
indoor climate is essential not only to well-being but also to productivity. Gabriel develops products that contribute to the creation
of comfortable and safe indoor climates in homes and offices.

Rather safe than sorry
In all our business areas – from Fabrics to FurnMaster, SampleMaster and ZenXit – Gabriel is very restrictive, when it comes to
the use of chemicals. Each raw material, including for example
dyes and processing aids, undergoes a comprehensive evaluation

Transparency creates credibility

"Let’s work together
to create excellent
indoor environments."

Let’s go green!
Through the commitment to sustainability and consumer safety,
Gabriel wants to support our customers go green. Gabriel offers the
largest selection of eco labelled upholstery fabrics on the market,
and our products carry internationally recognised product labels
such as Oeko-Tex, EU Ecolabel and Cradle to CradleTM Certified.
The labels are strong endorsements of the products' performance and empower our customers to meet increasing market
demands for safe and sustainable products – and to achieve their
own sustainability objectives.

Challenge us
Gabriel is ready to support our customers meeting the increasingly
specific requirements from the public and private sector. We are
always prepared to offer technical support and provide the necessary documentation, and it is our experience that we are able to
make significant contributions that help realise customer projects.
Please contact us at any time.

­
KEEP MOVING FORWARD
∙∙ Gabriel will continue to offer the largest selection of upholstery fabrics on the market with internationally
­recognised product labels such as Oeko-Tex, EU Ecolabel and Cradle to CradleTM Certified.
∙∙ New product labels are added if they support our ­primary customers in their markets.
∙∙ The use of recycled materials across business areas and products will be increased.
∙∙ The Gabriel Group will continue our proactive efforts to avoid ­hazardous chemicals. Chemical legislation
such as REACH only sets the minimum level.
Step upholstered on Cron from Actiu.

6

7

CSR Report 2015/16

RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION
AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
In the Gabriel Group, our CSR efforts cover the entire organisation across b
­ usiness areas and countries, every aspect of the
working day, every process and procedure and the entire supply
chain. In addition, our approach to CSR fully comply with the
UN Global Compact principles.
For our customers this means that they can rest assured and
feel confident working with us. Gabriel wants to care about the
details, we take an open and honest approach to CSR, and there
should be no unpleasant surprises.
Every day we co-operate closely with customers around the
globe to understand, support and address the issues that they
face and develop sustainable solutions that continue to meet their
requirements and the market’s changing needs.
In close co-operation with our primary supply chain partners,
we work to strengthen CSR activities across the entire supply
chain. From animal welfare on New Zealand to global working
conditions and ensuring human rights, we set high standards
and take an end-­to-end responsibility. All initiatives are managed
through certified management systems, and we visit and audit
supply chain partners on a regular basis.

Partners are chosen with great care
The Gabriel Group maintains the highest standards of ethical
conduct, and we expect no less from our supply chain partners.
Partners are choosen with great care, and we aspire to work only
with business partners, who are transparent about their efforts,
who share our CSR vision and are committed to turning this approach into action.

Quarterly, the specific risk assessment of our partners are updated
to mitigate risk in the supply chain. This assessment also includes
topics such as working environment, environmental performance
and other topics from the Code of Conduct in order to track
progress and secure continued compliance. We develop strategic plans with our partners that are continuously implemented.
The Gabriel Group expects our supply chain partners to join us
whole­heartedly on the road to improving CSR performance – and
we have seen no ­violations of our Code of Conduct.
Over the past years, business with our supply chain partners
have been improved and systematised. More and more suppliers have become certified in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO
14001. Suppliers producing significant volumes of the product
programme have shifted to 100% renewable energy to reduce
climate impacts. There is an overall reduction of the water and
energy comsumption per unit produced. In addition, we have
purchased CO2 credits covering 5% of onsite emissions related
to our Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM programme, and we are monitoring and setting targets for shipments by sea to reduce costs
and climate impact.

We get you the information you need

"The Gabriel Group maintains
the highest standards of ethical
conduct, and we expect no
less from our supply
chain partners."

Every year, an increased amount of supplier performance data
becomes available to us. The Gabriel Group have choosen not
publish all the information in this CSR Report, but we will provide
our customers with the specific data, facts and information on
request. We welcome any enquiry and do our utmost to answer
any questions that might arise.

Our partnerships reach far beyond signing our Code of Conduct – a
must for all suppliers. In 2015/16 we have updated our country risk
analysis covering primarily human rights and corruption to ensure
we have identified all potential issues in our countries of operation.

­
KEEP MOVING FORWARD
∙∙ To comply with the new requirements of the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
­Enterprises, we will within the next year fully document our social responsibility development plans together
with our s­ trategic supply chain partners.
∙∙ The Gabriel Group is open and honest about major non-conformance issues.
∙∙ We want to ensure that our customers always find safety and environmental performance of the production
best in class – throughout the entire supply chain.
∙∙ The Gabriel Group will continue to require documented and certified management systems from strategic
suppliers ­covering key areas such as quality, environment and climate, occupational health and safety as
well as CSR in general.

8

9

­

NUMBER OF
EMPLOYESS

292

GENDER BALANCE

CSR POLICY

TOP MANAGERS: 13% FEMALE

MIDDLE MANAGERS: 57% FEMALE

The CSR policy is applicable to activities of the Gabriel Group and includes our collaborative approach to the
value chain.
Gabriel endorses the principles embodied in the UN Global Compact and focuses on the following areas:
∙∙ To develop and manufacture our products and services with user health and safety in mind, reducing our
impact on environment and climate, and with respect for animal welfare throughout the p
­ roduction process.

PRODUCT LABELLING

∙∙ To ensure good working environments throughout the supply chain in compliance with country-specific
laws and Gabriel’s own ­requirements. These requirements comprise detailed technical specifications and
the content of Gabriel’s Code of Conduct.
∙∙ To treat continuous employee development and skills upgrading as high priorities.

95%

DS/16/20

56%

NUMBER OF MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
CERTIFICATES IN THE
GABRIEL GROUP

10
ISO 14001: 2
ISO 9001:

System Coverage:

100%

12%
NUMBER OF
VISITS AND
AUDITS AT OR
BY STRATEGIC
SUPPLY CHAIN
PARTNERS
Gabriel Group:

PERCENTAGE OF STRATEGIC ­PARTNERS WHO SHARE DETAILED CSR-DATA

CONSUMPTION OF
RAW MATERIALS 1,885 TONS
Wool: 773 tons
Polyester: 1,092 tons
Recycled input materials: 21 tons
Reporting period: 01.10.2015 – 30.09.2016
Fabric: Step

10

193

100%

TRANSPORT
BY SEA

97.2%

Transport from China to Europe

∙∙ To support students by providing practical training. Gabriel participates in training projects which benefit
both the students and the company.
∙∙ To maintain our position as first mover within our industry by implementing new initiatives to improve our
performance as a responsible company.
∙∙ To take into account all product life cycle stages and focus on the areas where we have the strongest influence and can make the biggest impact.
∙∙ To encourage sustainable consumption and user health by using product labels: Gabriel works with
­recognisable labelling schemes with a high level of consumer trust.
∙∙ To advise customers and users on significant impacts related to the production, use, recycling or disposal of
the company’s products. Company employees in customer contact positions must be able to provide correct
information on the Group’s objectives and policies. This information is available at the company website.
∙∙ To select our suppliers on their ability to fulfil environmental requirements and willingness to enter
into an open and detailed partnership to achieve optimum outcomes. Supply chain partners must r­ egularly
introduce cleaner technology, environmental improvements and cleaner energy sources, paying due heed
to the technical and financial implications.
∙∙ To apply internationally recognised standards such as ISO 9001 to Quality Management Systems, ISO
14001 to Environmental Management Systems, and follow the principles of OHSAS 18001 Occupational
Health and Safety Management and ISO 50001 Energy Management.
∙∙ To conduct an open and detailed dialogue with the authorities on CSR and environmental requirements
and oppose unlawful acts and irregularities.
∙∙ To communicate our CSR activities openly and foster the spread of CSR as a company-wide managerial activity.
∙∙ To annually renew our objectives within CSR, prepare action plans to ensure ongoing reductions of
the most significant impacts and create continuous improvements; integrating objectives into the internal
business plans described in the CSR Report, and make them known to all employees. The CSR Report
shows results and completed objectives and is published with the annual financial statements.

Gabriel Holding A/S
Hjulmagervej 55
DK-9000 Aalborg
Phone: +45 9630 3100
www.gabriel.dk

