ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

We take our social responsibility seriously
At Royal Unibrew, we are very conscious of our role as a leading beverage provider with breweries and activities in many
countries – and of our corporate social responsibility (CSR).
We want to contribute positively to developments in the areas
in which we operate, to limit our environmental impact, to
establish safe and good working conditions for our employees
and to supply consumers with products of a very high quality.
Therefore, our CSR work is an integrated part of our business
and a natural part of our day-to-day work.
Reduction of water and energy consumption plays an important role to an enterprise like Royal Unibrew, and much has
happened on that front. Since 2003, our energy consumption
per hectolitre produced has been more than halved. That has
required both large and small changes.

CSR

Even small changes may have a great effect when it comes
to packaging and containers, and we are therefore continuously working to optimise this area. If, say, we manage to
reduce the weight of a bottle or a can by just a few grams,
the impact will certainly be felt. Materials consumption
will be lower, we will be able to transport more at a time
and, ultimately, our CO2 emission will be reduced.

Royal Unibrew receives CSR
Company of the Year award

MANAGEMENT REPORT

50

Corporate
Social
Responsibility

In the autumn of 2016, Business Faxe Copenhagen conferred on us the CSR Company of the Year award. The
award was especially motivated by our social commitment.

A statement is made in accordance
with section 99A of the Danish
Financial Statements Act.

For a number of years, Royal Unibrew has been cooperating with local and municipal authorities on an active
effort to activate citizens balancing on the edge of the
labour market – giving them a fresh start. For example,
we have several employees in reduced-hours jobs and
many in trial jobs.

”The key to our good results in recent years
has been a persistent focus on sustainable,
long-term value creation and on achieving
continuous improvements.”

We have also found it natural to participate in the efforts
to integrate refugees into the Danish labour market. It is
our hope that the ”induction” with us will pave the way
for a permanent job in the longer term – either with us
or with another enterprise.
Also internally we focus on caring for our employees.
Both when it comes to our employees’ day-to-day safety,
job satisfaction and health, and when it comes to special
situations such as long-term illness. In our experience,
it is crucial to get back to work as quickly as possible,
which we try to facilitate eg by keeping in contact with
the employee during his/her illness and by offering a
gradual return to work.

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

MANAGEMENT REPORT

51

Corporate Social Responsibility
Royal Unibrew’s corporate social responsibility
(CSR) work is based on our shared values and Royal
Unibrew’s Code of Ethics. Moreover, a number of
guidelines have been defined for Royal Unibrew’s
corporate social responsibility in our quality, food
safety and environmental policies. Our CSR work
includes most of the themes comprised in the four
international CSR guideline sets: The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ISO 26000
guidance on social responsibility, the UN Global
Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Royal Unibrew operates in compliance with European and
international legislation and regulations as regards labour
and human rights, and it is our aim that our suppliers and
customers should do the same.

active effort to assume responsibility for these, for example
in relation to activating citizens balancing on the edge of the
labour market and integrating refugees.
Royal Unibrew operates in highly competitive markets, which
necessitates a strong focus on product costs and optimisation. This is supported by our policy of acting responsibly
towards the climate and the environment through careful
control and continuous optimisation of our resource consumption.

Focus areas in Royal Unibrew
Royal Unibrew has chosen to target its CSR efforts on
the following areas:

Human rights (labour rights)
Labour conditions (safety at work)
Environmental and climate issues

Royal Unibrew works against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery, and our activities must always be in
full compliance with anti-corruption legislation irrespective
of the place of operation being our European home markets
or our export markets.

It is our objective that Royal Unibrew’s production sites should
be safe and healthy places to work for its employees. Royal Unibrew’s health policy therefore focuses on preventive
measures to avoid employees being worn out and incurring
work-related injuries and on actively promoting safety, job
satisfaction and efficiency. Our main focus is on reducing
the number of occupational accidents and on our employees’
job satisfaction.

Royal Unibrew has through many years chosen to focus on
continuous improvements, which is a very hands-on method
for the individual employee in terms of achieving sustainable
long-term results. It is the objective to be able at all times to
deliver strong quality products with due consideration of our
employees and Royal Unibrew’s surroundings. This approach
has resulted in satisfactory improvements in a number of
areas for several years and will also form the basis of our
future CSR work.

We feel a special social responsibility in relation to the local
areas in which we operate. It is therefore Royal Unibrew’s aim
to have a good dialogue with local/municipal authorities on
the issues of current interest in the local areas; we make an

In 2017, we are planning to prepare and announce an overall
strategy for our CSR work to create an even better framework for and insight into our targeted CSR efforts across our
organisation.

Financial and business matters, including
– Anti-corruption
– Competition
– Tax policy and tax payment
Consumer affairs (responsible alcohol consumption)
Local community development
(competence development)

We have described below Royal Unibrew’s efforts in the
individual areas.

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

MANAGEMENT REPORT

52

Human rights (labour rights)
Policy
Royal Unibrew complies with existing labour legislation and
collective agreements, including enforcement of the freedom
of association and assembly, the elimination of forced and
compulsory labour and the use of child labour as well as the
elimination of discrimination in respect of the employee’s
gender, race, religious beliefs or political affiliation.
Within the broad area of human rights, Royal Unibrew has
chosen to focus specifically on diversity among its own employees, as well as labour rights at Royal Unibrew and with
trading partners
Royal Unibrew has an ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders
and the public on this responsibility and seeks to keep focus
on these areas through continuous improvements.

Activities

KPI

Continuous efforts are made to ensure workplace diversity. Traditionally, the brewery business is relatively maledominated, but Royal Unibrew works continuously to ensure
a more equal gender representation. Royal Unibrew is also
involved in other areas to eliminate discrimination; for example, we launched a project of attempting to bring newly arrived
refugees into job activation in Faxe in 2016 in cooperation with
the Municipality of Faxe.

A target has been defined for the promotion of diversity at
Royal Unibrew, including the achievement of a reasonable
gender representation at top management level comprising
the Executive Board and the executives just below, in order to
achieve at least 40% representation of each gender.

It is Royal Unibrew’s aim that suppliers and partners should
comply with Royal Unibrew’s ethical guidelines describing
how human rights apply to Royal Unibrew’s business matters, and that these should be incorporated into the terms of
trading with key suppliers.

The international management team comprised 65% (2015:
65%) men and 35% (2015: 35%) women in 2016.

As part of our dialogue with suppliers, we collect information
from them to ensure that Royal Unibrew is not brought into
conflict with its ethical guidelines.

Risk
There is a risk of ”biased” recruitment as compared to the
demographic development, thus creating a corporate culture
that does not reflect the surrounding world. This applies at
all organisational levels.
In relation to Royal Unibrew’s activities, there is a risk that
goods or services may be purchased from suppliers who do
not live up to Royal Unibrew’s ethical guidelines for respecting
human rights.

Performance

REPRESENTATION OF MEN AND WOMEN ON
THE INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM
2016

2015

Women

35 %

35 %

Men

65 %

65 %

Royal Unibrew had newly arrived refugees in trial jobs in 2016.
The collection of information from Royal Unibrew's suppliers
in 2016 did not detect any non-compliance with Royal Unibrew's ethical guidelines for respecting human rights.

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

Labour conditions (safety at work)
Policy
Royal Unibrew must be a safe and healthy place to work for
its employees; the Group focuses on preventive measures to
avoid employees being worn out and incurring work-related
injuries and works actively to promote job satisfaction.

Activities

KPI
A target for the maximum number of occupational accidents
per million work hours has been defined, and all occupational
accidents are registered.
A job satisfaction survey is regularly carried out among all
employees. The survey results in an overall job satisfaction
score and provides us with the possibility of monitoring developments in the area.

Near-accidents are registered and followed up with a view to
establishing preventive measures in order to avoid accidents.
At all production sites, health & safety activities are carried
out adapted to the local production site and work area. In
Denmark, for example, joint health & safety discussions, a
joint health & safety day as well as courses with focus on tools
to reduce daily peak loads were organised in 2016.
Job satisfaction was addressed in 2016 through workplace assessments and a job satisfaction survey among all employees.
Several products which may be transported directly to shops
without any lifting have been developed.

Risk
The key risks relate to occupational accidents or employees
being worn out due to physically demanding jobs and job
dissatisfaction.

Performance
OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS RESULTING IN ABSENCE
Frequency*
* Number of
occupational
accidents resulting
in absence per
million work
hours i

20
18
16
14
12
10

2013

2014

2015

2016

The job satisfaction survey among our employees in 2016
showed a higher rate of satisfaction among Royal Unibrew
employees than the peer benchmark.

MANAGEMENT REPORT

53

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

MANAGEMENT REPORT

CSR

54

Environmental and climate issues
Policy
Royal Unibrew complies with existing environmental legislation and strives at being a front-runner when it comes to
developing measures in the environmental area. We do that
by developing and improving our products and production,
by training our employees and through a dialogue with our
surroundings.

Activities
In 2016, we continued our efforts to continuously reduce Royal
Unibrew’s environmental footprint, primarily targeted at:
• Reduction of energy consumption
• Reduction of water consumption and of waste water
discharge
• Reduction of wastage of raw materials and semimanufactured products
• Waste recycling and reduction of resource consumption
• CO2-neutral production of selected products
Royal Unibrew’s compliance with environmental legislation
is regularly verified, including legislation relating to waste
water discharge, noise reduction and waste management.
Environmental risks are monitored locally at our production
sites in order to ensure compliance with standards and to
ensure fast corrective action if required.

Risk
The key environmental risks derived from Royal Unibrew’s
production are unintentional discharge of waste water/chemicals or coolants as well as high CO2 emission due to non-optimal process plant operation.
Moreover, there is a risk of local water resources being exploited beyond their capacity.

KPI
Total energy and water consumption in proportion to volume
production (hl) is measured on a monthly basis. Based on the
development in these KPIs, the effect of our environmental
work is monitored and our efforts in the individual areas are
adjusted.

Performance
A large number of initiatives in 2016 contributed towards a
continued reduction of both energy and water consumption:
Energy: 78 MJ per hectolitre produced corresponding to
an 8.7% reduction from 2015
Water: 3.1 hectolitres per hectolitre produced
corresponding to a 3.7% reduction from 2015
All production units continued their work of replacing current
energy sources with new energy-efficient LED light sources in
2016. In Denmark, many older distribution vehicles classified
at EURO 3 and 4 levels were replaced by new ones classified
at EURO 6 level.
In 2016, the Danish breweries were re-certified under ISO
14001.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
(Mega Joules per
produced hectoliter)

(Hectoliter per
produced hectoliter)

125

5

100

4

75

3

50

2

25

1

0

WATER CONSUMPTION

0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

Financial and business matters
Anti-corruption
Policy
Royal Unibrew works against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Our activities must always be in
compliance with existing anti-corruption legislation, irrespective of geographical area.

Activities

Risk
Royal Unibrew is exposed to non-compliance with anti-corruption legislation through employees’, suppliers’ and partners’ violations, and is also exposed to potential legal and
financial implications of such non-compliance.

KPI

According to Royal Unibrew’s Code of Ethics, our employees
are not allowed to offer or accept bribes or any improper
payments for personal or corporate gain.

The Company’s stand on anti-corruption is communicated
in all contexts, both in the internal supply chain and in our
external cooperation with customers and suppliers.

Disciplinary actions will be taken if an employee is involved
in bribery. The staff in all sales areas are trained annually in
this aspect.

All employees receive Royal Unibrew’s Code of Ethics when
employed, and sales staff and other employees are trained
in anti-corruption.

Royal Unibrew has incorporated into its contractual basis for
trading with key suppliers and partners a requirement for
compliance with anti-corruption legislation.

Compliance with the anti-corruption rules is addressed at
annual status meetings with key suppliers.

Performance
Royal Unibrew did not note any violations of Royal Unibrew’s
anti-corruption rules in 2016.

MANAGEMENT REPORT

55

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

Financial and business matters (continued)
Competition
Policy
Royal Unibrew’s business must always be conducted in full
compliance with existing local and international competition
legislation; irrespective of the place of operation.

Activities
Royal Unibrew has a competition law compliance programme
comprising a manual and guidelines. The programme includes regular training and follow-up towards relevant employees, eg through regular internal controls.

Risk
Royal Unibrew is exposed to non-compliance with competition
legislation through employees’ violations of competition rules
in the countries in which Royal Unibrew sells and distributes
its products.

KPI
Royal Unibrew continuously monitors developments in competition legislation and updates its compliance programme.
Royal Unibrew continuously trains managers and employees
within sales and procurement in applicable rules.
Continuous follow-up is effected by implementing internal
controls and controls in connection with signing of contracts.

Performance
Royal Unibrew did not note any violations of competition legislation in 2016.

MANAGEMENT REPORT

56

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

MANAGEMENT REPORT

57

Financial and business matters (continued)
Tax policy and tax payment
Policy and Activities
Royal Unibrew operates in a number of countries and is therefore subject to both national and international tax rules. At the
same time, the nature of Royal Unibrew’s business implies
that both direct and excise duties are paid in the individual
markets. Through its tax payments, Royal Unibrew contributes
positively to society in the respective countries – as it does by
creating jobs and using sub-suppliers.
The following general principles apply to Royal Unibrew’s
management of tax issues:
• Royal Unibrew pays taxes on its activities in the countries
in which the activities are carried out, and no special tax
structures for the purpose of tax optimisation are applied.
• Royal Unibrew endeavours to live up to national and international tax legislation at all times and sets out to enter
into an open and constructive dialogue with the tax authorities.
• Royal Unibrew has developed an internal organisation and
has laid down well-defined control procedures designed
to ensure compliance with tax legislation.
• Royal Unibrew wants to communicate openly and fairly
about its tax policy and tax payments.

Risk
Mismanagement of tax issues may lead to a negative image
with investors and business partners in general, and may
lead to higher tax costs.

KPI
Royal Unibrew continuously updates its processes and documentation of tax legislation compliance in all the countries
in which the Company operates.

Performance
Royal Unibrew was not involved in any cases of non-compliance with tax legislation in 2016.
In 2016, the effective tax rate was 21% of profit for the year
(2015: 21%). Royal Unibrew paid corporation tax of DKK 211
million on its operating activities (2015: DKK 197 million). In
addition to that, Royal Unibrew’s activities generate other
considerable tax payments, including excise duties on beer,
mineral water and other items, VAT, personal taxes and social
security contributions. The total contribution through taxes in
2016 amounted to DKK 5.0 billion (2015: 4.6 billion). Moreover,
tax contributions from the Group’s suppliers and customers
are indirectly generated.

ALLOCATION OF TAXES

6,1%

4,4% 0,2%

Excise duties
VAT
Personal taxes and social
security contributions
Company Income Taxes
Other taxes

Total taxes
2016

30,8%

DKK 5,0 mia.
58,5%

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

Consumer affairs (responsible alcohol consumption)
Policy
Royal Unibrew supports The Brewers of Europe’s views and
initiatives concerning responsible alcohol consumption and
complies with the rules on responsible marketing and consumption of beverages.
We are very aware of the risk, internally and with our customers, of our alcoholic and/or sacchariferous products being
abused or over-consumed.
Being part of local industry organisations in the individual
countries.

Activities
Royal Unibrew contributes actively towards responsible marketing and consumption of beverages.
Royal Unibrew employees engaged in product marketing are
continuously trained in existing marketing legislation.
Compliance with existing marketing legislation is a requirement in Royal Unibrew’s agreements with customers and
partners, eg advertising agencies and customers.
Royal Unibrew also assumes responsibility for preventing
abuse problems among its employees and, through a large
variety of sponsorships, supports sports and health initiatives
nationally, regionally as well as locally.
We launch products with a lower alcohol content or sugarfree products.

Risk
Any non-compliance with the legislation governing the marketing of its products continuously exposes Royal Unibrew to
criticism from regulatory authorities, adverse press coverage,
fines, etc.

KPI
Royal Unibrew continuously monitors developments in beverage legislation and marketing to ensure compliance.
Royal Unibrew trains relevant employees and performs continuous monitoring of compliance with rules as well as activities in new marketing media.

Performance
No violations of marketing legislation were noted in 2016.

MANAGEMENT REPORT

58

ROYA L U N I B R E W

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

CSR

Local community development (competence development)
Policy
It is Royal Unibrew’s goal to attract and retain competent
and talented people who are results-oriented, adaptable,
innovative, creative and have the right mindset/DNA. This is
a prerequisite for realising our ambitious business objectives.
We are therefore investing in our employees – both by way of
learning and upgrading of skills, but also by offering them
influence on their jobs and by listening to their ideas and
wishes for the future.

Activities
In 2016, efforts were directed at raising the level of the individual employee’s competences and at strengthening our
managers’ ability to drive changes and to support their employees’ development. Our employees were offered a number
of courses that give the individual concrete tools to handle a
more complex and changeable workday; managers strengthened their competences within project management, among
other things.
At the same time, focus was directed at strengthening newly
appointed managers’ management skills and ensuring their
integration and network in the organisation through general
management training.

Risk
Royal Unibrew operates in a highly competitive market, and
inability to attract and develop the right people to launch and
promote new products at an ever-increasing pace constitutes
a risk to the continued success of the Company. Royal Unibrew’s competitiveness also depends on close cooperation
between the individual business areas in order to ensure a
strong value chain and avoid a silo mentality.

KPI
Employees and managers are currently offered learning and
competence development enabling them to handle a still
more demanding and changing work situation.
Royal Unibrew is able to attract the most talented people by
meeting their need for competence development and coinfluence on their own jobs and careers.

Performance
Through a number of course offerings, our employees have
been given concrete tools to handle challenges and change.
Our managers have become better equipped to drive changes
and to help their employees navigate these changes.

MANAGEMENT REPORT

59

