CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | 14

Corporate Governance

Statutory statement on corporatesocial responsibilityPOLICYSPEAS believes that a company's long-term successand its compliance with as well as ongoing adaptationto ethical and environmental market norms are positivelyinterrelated.SPEAS has only indirect influence on the individualprivate equity funds' choice of companies in which toinvest. However, the Company's basic premise is thatcompanies comply with laws and rules determined bynational authorities on the markets in which the companyoperates as well as with internationally acceptednorms concerning human rights and labour standards.The Company has not drawn up specific policies onhuman rights or environmental impact.IMPLEMENTATIONSPEAS regularly assesses (i) whether a private equitycompany has adopted a code of practice or equivalenton responsible investment, (ii) to what extent a privateequity company considers other relevant ethicaland environmental issues prior to making an investment,(iii) how relevant ethical and environmentalissues are addressed by the portfolio companies duringthe holding period, and (iv) the ongoing reportingto the investors regarding status and development ofsame.If a private equity company has not adopted a recognisedcode of practice on responsible investment orimplemented a satisfactory policy in this regard, SPEASwill enter into a dialogue with the private equity companywith a view to including relevant ethical andenvironmental issues in the investment process.PERFORMANCESPEAS has received declarations of intent from theprivate equity funds to integrate codes of practice forresponsible investment into their investment processesand implement these in their portfolio companies.In our dialogue with the private equity funds and inongoing reporting, SPEAS has not recognised anybreach of these commitments.Three of the private equity companies with whichSPEAS cooperates have endorsed the United Nations'Principles for Responsible Investments.As SPEAS does not invest directly in portfolio companies,but only wields indirect influence through theprivate equity funds, we do not find it possible to furtherevaluate any results achieved or expectations offuture achievement.
Targets for gender representationThe target of the Board of Directors of ScandinavianPrivate Equity A/S is to have at least one female boardmember before end-2017.However, it will not be relevant to consider femaleboard members until the Board of Directors has to bewidened or board members be replaced, at the earliest.But there are no plans in this regard in light of,among other things, the Company's distribution policyaccording to which no new investment commitmentswill be made.

SCANDINAVIAN PRIVATE EQUITY A/S ! ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16

