Corporate Responsibility
The boards of directors of the ultimate company
of the individual portfolio companies are generally composed of a representative from the Board
of Directors and the Executive Management of
Schouw & Co. along with external board members
who have a special interest in and knowledge of
the particular portfolio company’s business area.

Corporate responsibility (section 99 a)

The boards of directors of a portfolio company’s
underlying subsidiaries are generally composed of
managers and employees from the portfolio company and possibly external board members.

Presentation of Schouw & Co.’s business model
Schouw & Co. is a diversified industrial conglomerate with an operational structure consisting of
the parent company Schouw & Co. and a number
of wholly owned portfolio companies each structured as focused sub-groups with their own subsidiaries.

To support the individual managements of the
portfolio companies, Schouw & Co. has issued a
set of general guidelines for its subsidiaries.
Remuneration policy
Schouw & Co.'s remuneration policy is intended
to firmly align the interests of the members of the
Board of Directors and the Executive Management
with those of the shareholders and the company.
The remuneration policy is a mean of ensuring
that the remuneration provided will always reasonably reflect the company's performance and
current situation. In addition, it is intended to
promote the long-term goals for safeguarding the
company’s interests.
The remuneration policy and the overall guidelines for incentive programmes can be found on
the company's website, www.schouw.dk.

All amounts in DKK million

The statutory report on corporate responsibility
includes a description of the Schouw & Co.’s business model in relation to corporate responsibility,
corporate responsibility policies and risk assessments and a description of actions taken and results achieved.

Each individual portfolio company has a high degree of operational autonomy as well as its own
organisation and management in charge of its operations. Subsidiaries of the portfolio companies
operate activities that are identical to or closely
related to the general activities of the portfolio
company.
More than half of the Group’s operations are located in Denmark or other parts of Europe, However, the Group also has considerable business
operations in non-European countries, mainly in
Malaysia, Thailand and Chile, but the production
facilities there are generally fully on a par with
the European units.
Most of the consolidated revenue is generated
from automated or advanced production processes in which sourced raw materials are made
into products resold to customers that manufac-

ture the end products. The remaining revenue derives mainly from technical trading and processing operations in which sourced components
are handled or processed before being resold to
OEM customers. The Group’s operations are generally performed to high quality standards.
The Group sources a limited number of different
raw materials that mainly include marine and
vegetable raw materials and oil-based products
generally supplied in large quantities from internationally recognised suppliers. On the other
hand, the Group purchases a very large number of
different components from many suppliers worldwide. It is a general characteristic of these products that they are manufactured by recognised
technical manufacturers that meet high quality
standards.
The Group sells its products to professional customers that use its products or incorporate them
in an end product. Most of its process production
is sold to a limited number of customers that are
large-volume buyers. The Group does not sell directly to consumers and only sells to public sector
customers to a limited extent.
The characteristics of the Group’s business model
set out above mean that certain CR-related matters
are of special importance to our business. This applies especially to matters related to our employees, our use of resources – ie energy and commodities – and our business ethics.

Annual Report 2016 Schouw & Co. 35

Corporate Responsibility
CR policy and risk assessment
In 2016, Schouw & Co. adopted corporate responsibility policies within the fields of human rights,
social issues and labour conditions, anti-corruption and business ethics, and climate and the environment. The Group’s CR policy forms the
framework for a common approach by our employees in respect of our values and our objective
of ensuring sustainable and responsible conduct.
The policy describes a number of guidelines and
the expectations we have to each other, and it
summarises how we should conduct ourselves in
our respective roles as employees and employer.
The policy is based on the ten principles of the
UN Global Compact.
Schouw & Co. has also made an overall risk assessment in these areas. The principal risks are
described below in the context of the policy applying to each individual area.

on a very similar basis, and we strive to uphold
the same high standards at all production units,
regardless of geographical affiliation. The latter is
believed to contribute to reducing the risk of violating human rights.
SOCIAL AND EMPLOYEE-RELATED MATTERS

At Schouw & Co., we believe that results are created by people. We aim to be a responsible employer and to provide proper employment conditions, healthy and safe working conditions and a
motivational working environment for our employees.
Schouw & Co. has performed a general risk assessment in relation to social and employee-related
matters. At Schouw & Co., we believe our employees constitute our most important resource. As a
result, we consider CR risks relating to social and
employee-related matters to be of material importance.

HUMAN RIGHTS

Schouw & Co. operates in a number of different
countries worldwide. Regardless of which country
we operate in, we endeavour to observe human
rights and to treat our employees with dignity and
respect. We support and respect the protection of
internationally proclaimed human rights as set
out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and in the declarations and recommendations of the ILO.
Schouw & Co. has performed a general risk assessment in relation to human rights. The Group has
operations in many different countries, including
in what is defined as high-risk countries. The production units of our subsidiaries generally operate

All amounts in DKK million

The large proportion of automated production
and the handling of many different technical
products, requires that our employees have very
demanding skills. In Europe as well as in all other
countries of operation, we generally employ
skilled labour and well-trained employees who
acquire the necessary skills by receiving teaching
and training, thereby enabling our portfolio companies to comply with their quality and safety
standards. This contributes to ensuring and maintaining a high level of health and safety, and constant efforts are made to minimise risks in this
field.

ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS ETHICS

Over the years, Schouw & Co. has built a reputation of a company maintaining a high degree of
integrity and ethical conduct. We combat all
forms of corruption, including bribery and facilitation payments.
Schouw & Co. has performed a general risk assessment in relation to corruption and business ethics. Schouw & Co.’s vision is to be among the best
in terms of creating value in a proper and reliable
manner by committing ourselves and our businesses to taking responsibility and acting sustainably in any country we operate in. This vision is
firmly anchored in the way we at Schouw & Co.
run our business, and it has contributed to building the Group’s strong reputation over the past
many years. Accordingly, this area is not believed
to constitute a significant CR risk, but we give
considerable attention to ensuring that high
standards are maintained.
CLIMATE AND THE ENVIRONMENT

Many of the companies of the Schouw & Co.
Group are involved in large-scale processing of
commodities, and we recognise the environmental
impact of our production processes. Our CR policy on climate and the environment goes hand in
hand with good business acumen. We work to

Annual Report 2016 Schouw & Co. 36

Corporate Responsibility
protect the environment and to reduce on a regular basis our emissions relative to our production
output.
Schouw & Co. has performed a general risk assessment in relation to climate and the environment.
Due to the extensive use of oil-based products and
marine raw materials and the considerable consumption of energy for processing purposes, this
area is considered to make up a significant CR
risk for most of the Group’s businesses.
It is inherent to and an integral part of the Group’s
business model that we seek to optimise consumption of raw materials and minimise the volume of waste, and thereby to reduce the volume
of energy consumed and the impact on climate
and the environment and to lower the relative
volume of emissions. Going forward, our individual companies will maintain a consistent focus on
improving their performance in terms of climate
and the environment.
Description of actions taken and results achieved
The Schouw & Co. Group’s CR efforts have, historically and in 2016, been focused mainly on areas believed to represent a particular CR risk or
which contains a business perspective, meaning
social and employee-related matters and climate
and the environment.
In the field of social and employee-related matters, BioMar conducted a survey on employee
commitment with a view to identifying potential
areas for improvement, which led to an improvement of internal communications. On a local

All amounts in DKK million

scale, several factories have had an extraordinary
focus on health and safety.
Specifically, the factories in Costa Rica and Chile
have run extensive programmes teaching safety
and securing the physical working environment.
In Denmark, a focus area for Fibertex Personal
Care in 2016 was to ensure safe access to machinery in connection with repairs and maintenance,
and for the employees to work in ergonomically
correct positions. In Germany and Malaysia, work
focused on the handling of hazardous goods and
safety related to using forklifts. Lastly, the company standardised the process of registering workrelated accidents at its different factories. Combined, the company has reduced the incidence of
work-related injuries involving loss of time from
work from 24 per one million working hours in
2015 to 22 in 2016.
Fibertex Nonwovens focused especially on improving its physical working environment in
2016, particularly at its recent company acquisitions. As a result, noise-reducing installations at
its two production facilities in the USA have resulted in significant noise reduction for the operators attending the lines on a daily basis. At the
factory in Turkey, the company has installed an
air condition system in the production area, significantly improving work-condition temperatures.
Since the merger in early 2016, Hydra/Specma
has reviewed current practices at the two compa-

nies with a view to sharing experiences and developing best practices with a particular focus on
working environment and safety.
GPV’s focus in 2016 was on preventing and reducing the number of work-related accidents. The
company has prepared the implementation of a
new policy that requires factory management to
report all work-related accidents to the executive
management and to assess at the following management meeting how similar episodes can be
avoided in future.
In the field of climate and the environment in
2016, BioMar continued its efforts to ensure sustainability, extending the number of years it has
been committed to this very central issue. Its activities include broad-reaching development efforts to reduce consumption of traditional marine
raw materials, but also such steps as installing advanced air filters at production facilities in order
to reduce the strain on local communities. Specifically, as part of a major extension of its production facility in Norway, BioMar has signed a longterm lease for a second natural gas-driven ship
that will help cut transport-related carbon emissions.
Fibertex Personal Care and Fibertex Nonwovens
were both specifically focused on their energy
consumption in 2016, preparing a detailed overview of the energy consumed in their respective
processes. Both companies had their Danish factories certified to the ISO 50001 standard on energy

Annual Report 2016 Schouw & Co. 37

Corporate Responsibility
management as part of a three-year project on energy efficiency enhancements involving the implementation of specific energy-saving projects
and special analysis to identify potential energy
savings. During the past year, both companies
have tested the use of LED lighting at their facilities. Energy consumption at the two factories in
Denmark is expected to be reduced by 1,500 MWh
and 1,000 MWh respectively once all projects
have been completed.
Since the merger in early 2016, Hydra/Specma
has reviewed established practices in the two
companies in preparation of the detailed mapping
of the energy consumption by the combined company that is scheduled for 2017.
GPV defined an overall target in 2016 to cut its
power consumption relative to its revenue by
10% from 2016 to 2020, and the company has for
several years been recording selected data to be
used in monitoring performance. All GPV factories have building and machinery maintenance
staff working together with management to look
into potential ways to cut consumption of power,
water and gas. As part of this effort, LED lighting
was installed at the Tarm factory in 2016.
In the fields of human rights, anti-corruption and
business ethics, we made general assessments of
the primary risks in 2016 that will be used as a
basis for our efforts going forward. These assessments, along with the work to develop CR policies in general, were carried out in a collaboration
involving representatives from the Group’s five
major businesses.

All amounts in DKK million

The Group intends to continue its CR efforts
within social and employee-related matters, climate and the environment in 2017. We also plan
to investigate how best to strengthen our efforts in
the two other areas: human rights and anti-corruption and business ethics.
Additional information about actions and results
achieved can be found on the company's website:
www.schouw.dk/cg2016.

Gender composition (Section 99 b)

The Board of Directors of Schouw & Co. has fixed
the following targets for the gender composition
of its management:
For the measurement period from 1 April 2013 to
31 March 2017, the target is to increase the number of female board members of Aktieselskabet
Schouw & Co. from one member currently, equal
to 14%, to at least two members, equal to at least
28%. A target has also been defined for the Group
that all of its Danish reporting class C companies
should have at least one female board member,
equal to at least 20%. At the start of the measurement period, none of these companies had female
board members.
No new members have been elected to the Board
of Directors since the start of the measurement period. The Board of Directors was increased from
six to seven shareholder-elected members on 11
April 2012, but at the general meeting held on 14
April 2016,that number was again reduced to six,
one of whom is a woman.
The Group has six group companies in the relevant reporting class: BioMar Group A/S with four
shareholder-elected board members, BioMar A/S
with three shareholder-elected board members,
Fibertex Personal Care A/S, Fibertex Nonwovens
A/S and GPV International A/S, each with four
shareholder-elected board members, and HydraGrene A/S with five shareholder-elected board
members. None of these companies currently
have any female board members.

Annual Report 2016 Schouw & Co. 38

Corporate Responsibility
No new shareholder-elected members have been
elected to the boards of directors of these subsidiaries since the current targets were adopted, with
the exception of BioMar A/S, in which one male
board member was replaced twice by a new male
board member. BioMar A/S is a wholly owned
subsidiary of BioMar Group A/S, and the company’s board of directors consists entirely of senior employees of the BioMar Group. In connection
with the acquisition of GPV on 1 April 2016,
three new board members were appointed. They
are two male representatives of Schouw & Co. and
an independent male member with special
knowledge of the company’s industry.
Accordingly, the Group made no progress in 2016
in meeting the targets. As the current measurement period expires at the end of March 2017, the
Board of Directors has defined a new measurement period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2021,
and for which the current targets are maintained.
In addition, the Board of Directors of Schouw &
Co. has adopted the following policy for increasing the proportion of the under-represented gender at the Group's other management levels.
Schouw & Co. is aware that the proportion of
women at management level in the Group is generally lower than the gender composition of the
Group's employees in general. Accordingly, the
companies of the Schouw & Co. Group will make
a special effort to create a framework to support
the career development of individual women employees, for example through networks, mentoring
schemes or other specific initiatives that may help

All amounts in DKK million

individual employees build management experience.
The companies of the Schouw & Co. Group will
also make a dedicated effort to ensuring the best
possible women representation among candidates
being considered for management positions.
Formally, the policy only applies to the parent
company and its Danish reporting class C companies being reported for, but the general intention
is for the Group’s other companies to take the
same approach.
It is important to the Group that the best possible
level of representation of women is ensured
among candidates shortlisted for management positions. This was the case in 2016, when a finance
manager was being sought for the parent company, although the successful candidate was
male, and in the appointment of a female CCO at
Fibertex Nonwovens. In Hydra-Grene, a female
CFO was replaced by a male employee who was
recruited internally from a former sister company.
Every second year, the Group arranges a two-day
symposium that is attended by senior managers
from across the Group. The 2016 symposium was
attended by 87 employees, seven of whom (8%)
were women. The 2014 symposium had 62 attendees, five of whom were women (also 8%).

Annual Report 2016 Schouw & Co. 39

