Corporate social responsibility
Corporate social responsibility
It is important SP Group that we can increase the Group’s earnings and
growth in a responsible manner. With our presence in USA, Asia and several countries in Europe, our production and activities affect both people
and the environment in various types of society.
We are proud that the Group can contribute financially to the communities of which we are part by being innovative and creating workplaces.
However, acknowledging that our products increase the consumption of
plastics, we actively assume responsibility for developing our production
in a manner that increasingly reduces any adverse impact on the environment and contributes to a sustainable development.
SP Group’s overall CSR and sustainability efforts are in line with the 10
principles under the UN Global Compact regarding the environment,
human rights, employee rights and anti-corruption. SP Group’s largest
subsidiary, SP Moulding A/S, adhered to Global Compact in 2012 and is
making a systematic effort to comply with the 10 principles.
To ensure that we fulfil our responsibility ambition, we have adopted a
CSR policy, which reflects SP Group’s fundamental value proposition:
to come up with optimum plastic solutions to the benefit of both our
customers and society at large. In that way, the CSR policy constitutes a
framework for all our activities and our profile as a responsible place to
work and a responsible business partner.
Also, we have adopted a Supplier Code of Conduct, which is the basis
for positive cooperation with our suppliers with a view to promoting responsibility and sustainability in the supplier chain.
Below, we give an account of SP Group’s many efforts and results in 2016.
For every area, we have also set targets for the coming year.

Environment and climate
In SP Group, we are systematically striving to reduce our impact on the
environment and promote a higher level of environmental responsibility.
In doing so, we make use of environmentally friendly technologies and
materials and a certified environmental management system.
SP Group continually focuses on reducing the effects of the Group’s
activities on the climate by reducing the water, electricity and heating
consumption, thus reducing CO2 emissions and optimising energy consumption.

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2016 (average)
11

111

• reduce energy consumption
• produce renewable energy
• purify smoke from coal-fired power plants and petrochemical plants.

Risk
SP Group’s primary environmental risk is associated with consumption of
resources and waste from production.
The production plants are subject to a number of environmental requirements in all countries, and further, a number of environmental and
quality assurance systems have been implemented by the plants on a
voluntary basis.
SP Group believes the Group complies with all current environmental
regulations and that no enforcement orders remain unsolved anywhere
in production.
In spite of extensive safety procedures, the general as well as the working
environment may be affected in case of accident.
Reduction of energy, electricity and water
The most considerable impact on the environment occurs when the SP
Group entities consume energy, particularly power, during production.
To SP Group, it therefore makes sense to reduce the consumption of
energy, electricity and water.
By continuing to investing in energy-saving equipment and closely monitoring developments in key consumption indicators at all our plants, we
make sure that we can control and reduce the consumption of resources
as well as costs on an ongoing basis. By implementing resource-reducing
measures, the individual plants contribute to both cost reduction and a
positive, external environmental impact in their local community. These
measures led to a reduction in the consumption of resources in 2016.
Even through SP Group’s direct CO2 emissions are modest, we seek also
here to further the positive environmental impact by purchasing a significant portion of the power we use in Denmark from plants which produce
renewable energy, primarily from wind turbines.

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2015 (average)

39
12

126
574

658

Our target is to contribute to environmental sustainability through our
customers’ use of SP Group’s products. Thus, more than 26% of our revenue stems from the cleantech industry, which uses our products to:

15
23 2

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Latvia
Poland
Slovakia
The Netherlands
China
Americas

115

34

112

529

612

10
26 2

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Latvia
Poland
Slovakia
The Netherlands
China
Americas

Management’s review / SP Group

35

Less waste, more reuse
The increase in the price of raw materials and waste disposal expenses
has made SP Group increase focus on reducing the consumption of raw
materials and the waste percentage. Consequently, all plants now focus
on producing less waste and increasing reuse of plastic materials.
At SP Moulding’s and Ulstrup Plast’s factories, this is done by using decentral grinders on all machines to ensure that remaining material from
the production of each component is grinded immediately and led down
a closed system together with the plastic material for the next component. Gibo Plast and SP Medical use central grinders to ensure reuse of
surplus material in other product components. Also Tinby and Ergomat
have enhanced process efficiency so that the rate of use has increased
and the amount of waste has gone down.
Since 2013, SP Group has been working on developing a product that
replaces wood from rain forests by plastics from sorted household waste
(Plastic Wood Compound).
The recycled plastics can be used for selected product types, thus contributing to a distinctive reduction of the environmental impact – both in
the production phase and in connection with the customer’s subsequent
use and disposal of the product.
Environmentally friendly technologies
By using environmentally friendly technologies, SP Group seeks to show
that plastics – when produced and used with care – is an environmentally
better choice.
In environmental life cycle analyses, plastics generally rank higher than
most alternative materials, being for instance more light and flexible than
metal. When, for instance, plastic is used instead of metal on the exterior
parts of rolling stock such as agricultural machinery, tractors, combine
harvesters, buses and cars, the product life is prolonged. In addition, the
capacity of transport equipment is increased, reducing fuel consumption.
Thanks to its insulating properties, polyurethane can contribute to reducing waste of heat and ensuring efficient ventilating systems. In addition,
environmental effects can be obtained by using fluoroplastics coatings as
corrosion protection, e.g. in flue gas purifying plants at coal-fired power
plants to avoid acid rainwater. Other coatings of surfaces with fluoroplastics can generate considerable savings on cleaning materials and solvents
as well as water.

• use of environment-friendly products in the production and development processes
• minimisation of waste and refuse as well as resource consumption
• reuse, to the widest extent possible, of materials and products
• a satisfactory working environment where safety and environmental
impacts are prioritised.

Human rights
CSR policy
We wish to support and respect the protection of human rights internationally. In countries where there is a risk of human rights abuse, we will
strive to prevent any human rights abuse and take remedial action should
we encounter such abuse.
As SP Group wants to contribute to the protection of human rights in the
countries in which we operate, we attempt to promote measures that
have a positive impact on human rights and seek to mitigate any adverse
impact on human rights in our value chain and at our sub-suppliers.
Our efforts are based on international human rights conventions and, in
the EU, also on the fundamental rights laid down in the EU Treaty.
Risk
SP Group is aware of the current and potential risks which our production,
activities and business partners may cause in relation to human rights.
Outcome
In 2016, SP Group was not involved in or experienced human rights abuse
in the Group or at sub-suppliers.
Privacy
SP Group makes sure that personal data regarding our employees and
customers are treated in a way which meets the statutory requirements
in relation to privacy and personal data protection. For instance, we have
taken security measures to protect personal data from being misused,
leaked or destroyed.
Discrimination
SP Group makes an active effort to discourage discrimination, both internally in relation to our employees and externally in our supplier chain. In
this connection, we also focus on equal treatment and equal opportunities for everyone.

Environmental management system
It is SP Group’s strategy that all production entities must implement a
certifiable environmental management system that ensures:

Trade payables
Our suppliers are obliged to comply with a Supplier Code according to
which they must, among other things, promote the protection of human rights.

Distribution of employees (average) 2012-2016

Distribution of employees abroad (average) 2012-2016

1500

70

1200

60

900

50

600

40

300

30

0

20
Plast
2012

36

SP Group

Belægning
2013

2014

Øvrige
2015

2016

2012

2013

2014

2015

Employees abroad – %

2016

DuraStripe® from Ergomat.

Elżbieta Magdziarz and Justyna Sobieraj at SP Medical’s factory in Poland.

SP Medical, Poland, celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2016.

To ensure that this requirement is met, we cooperate and enter into a
dialogue with our suppliers on a current basis, while at the same time
monitoring that they assume responsibility in this area. If some supplier
does not meet the requirements of our Supplier Code of Conduct, we
can forthwith terminate our agreement with the supplier.

Human resource issues
CSR policy
We acknowledge our employees’ rights in respect of freedom of association and collective bargaining.
We want to ensure that our employees enjoy good conditions of employment in a secure and healthy working environment. We will strive
to ensure that our employees are offered development opportunities at
work, e.g. through continuing education and training.
We strongly disapprove forced labour and child labour. If we engage
youth workers aged 15-18, they are not allowed to perform dangerous
work or night work.
We respect differences in cultures and traditions and will not discriminate
against anyone at the workplace because of his or her age, sex, race,
complexion, religion or faith, national or social origin, union membership
or any other cause of discrimination.
Aiming at running all SP Group entities as sound entities and attractive
places of work, we make targeted efforts to ensure basic employee rights
and a safe, respectful and stimulating working day for each individual
employee.
We base our efforts on national and international rules and rights for
employees and, locally, take the measures that are needed to put the
requirements into practice.

Risk
SP Group is investigating on an ongoing basis if, in our production or via
sub-suppliers, we have a current or potential risk of becoming involved
in child labour or forced labour.
To minimise such risk, we do not employ minors in the Group. Any kind
of discrimination in working and employment conditions is prohibited
we well.
Outcome
In 2016, SP Group was not involved in or experienced any adverse impact
on employee rights in the Group or at sub-suppliers.
Staff composition
On average, SP Group’s staff outside Denmark increased by approx. 6.7%
to 985 employees in 2016. The number of employees in Denmark increased from 529 to 574.
Globally, SP Group’s staff increased from 1,498 at the beginning of the
year to 1,696 at year-end. On average, SP Group had 1,559 employees
in 2016. At year-end, 36.7% of the staff was employed in Denmark, and
63.3% was employed outside Denmark.
The year saw a shift of approx. 0.7 percentage points as part of the increased internationalisation of the business and the acquisition of MedicoPack with 80 Danish employees. Going forward, growth is expected
to be generated primarily in Eastern Europe, Asia and USA.
Diversity
The long-term goal is for SP Group to reflect society at large and, in particular, our customers, both in terms of gender, nationality and ethnicity. This reflection of society is to contribute positively to the Company
being perceived as an attractive place of work for both customers and
current and future employees. In order for the Group to be able to fulfil

Management’s review / SP Group 37

its business goals in the long term, we see diversity as an important
contribution.
Female leaders
The Board of Directors of SP Group A/S has adopted a policy with the
purpose of increasing the ratio of the underrepresented gender at all
levels of management and promoting diversity in general. The goal is still
to fill managerial posts based on the qualifications needed, while at the
same time increasing the ratio of women where possible.
At year-end, the ratio of women at general management level (Executive
Board and management team) was 21%. SP Group still aims to ensure
that at least one male and one female candidate are among the top three
candidates for new leadership positions.
The Board of Directors has set up a target for the ratio of the underrepresented gender among board members elected by the company in general
meeting of 20% by 2017. This target was set based on a time horizon of
three years. At the annual general meeting of shareholders in 2017, the
Board of Directors will nominate Bente Overgaard. If the company in
general meeting elects Bente Overgaard, the target will be met.
Wage and working conditions
In Denmark, wage and working conditions are determined in collective
agreements resulting from local negotiations. In foreign jurisdictions,
the employees’ conditions and rights are primarily laid down in legislation, codes and regulations. As an employer, SP Group observes, as a
minimum, national legislation and collective agreements as well as rules
governing working hours, etc. and strives to distribute extra benefits.
In connection with comprehensive rounds of job cuts, SP Group not only
complies with the rules of notice and negotiations with employees, but
also seeks to ease the consequences for the employees affected.
A safe and healthy working environment
SP Group creates a safe and healthy working environment for our employees, partly through the working environment organisation and partly
through policies and targeted efforts to ensure safety and health on a
day-to-day basis. For instance, we always make sure that our employees
get the protective equipment and the training needed to perform their
work in a safe manner.
Access to education
All employees in SP Group are allowed to improve their qualifications
through continuing and further education.
SP Group also applies the systematic rollout of Lean processes to the
plants to enable the employees to influence their own working situation
as well as processes and work flows.
The target set for 2017 is to proceed with the skills development of the
employees, allowing them to attend to several, different tasks. This will
increase flexibility in production and make the working day more varied
for the employees.
Freedom of unionisation
All employees in SP Group have the right to freely unionise, express their
opinions and participate in or elect people to participate in collective
bodies. Employees of the group entities appoint representatives for joint
consultation committees and working environment committees where
they meet with local management. At the production units outside Denmark, systems have been established allowing the employees to appoint
spokespersons for negotiations with Management.

38

SP Group

Anti-corruption
CSR policy
We wish in all of our external relations to maintain a high level of integrity
and responsibility, and we do not engage in corruption or bribery. We
refrain from offering, promising or giving any kind of bribes in order to
wrongfully influence public-sector employees, judges or business relations. We also refrain from taking or accepting any kind of bribes ourselves.
Our agents, intermediaries, consultants or other persons acting on our
behalf are subject to the obligation not to engage in corruption or bribery.
To ensure that our employees and other persons representing SP Group
do not engage in corruption, we developed a learning programme in
2016. The programme contributes to ensuring a high knowledge level in
respect of bribery, receipt of gifts, events, etc. and provides our employees with insight into the rules on anti-corruption. It further helps them
understand when they are at risk of becoming engaged in corruption - as
well as their scope for action.
Risk
SP Group carries on activities in parts of the world where corruption is
an everyday occurrence. For instance, parts of the Group are often met
with requests for secret commission or the like.
Outcome
As SP Group does not engage in corruption or bribery, we have drawn
up an anti-corruption policy, which instructs all employees in how to
mitigate corruption.

Ergomat’s innovative new product incorporating LED technology into the Deluxe
family of ergonomic mats has been very
well received by customers, particularly
in the automotive and aviation sector
where the up-lighting provided
by this solution improves
assembly efficiency,
quality assurance
and maintenance and repair
services.

