Spar Nord Annual Report

Social responsibility

31

Social responsibility
Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, is
something we take seriously at Spar Nord
and have done for many years. However,
the Bank has traditionally translated this
popular term into our own language and
reality, because experience shows that this
generates better defined and more focused
action.
From the point of view of Spar Nord, CSR
stands for conduct in the true sense of the
word, and not abstract principles. Our basic
approach is that Spar Nord’s responsibility
as a company and a financial institution
is anchored in our close involvement with
customers and the local community. A responsibility and an involvement that are
embedded as given elements in the Bank’s
history and culture and on which the business depends.
Spar Nord supports the Danish Government’s endeavours to put Corporate Social
Responsibility at the top of the agenda,
and we also support the intentions underlying international initiatives like the UN
Global Compact and UN PRI. Nevertheless,
we have chosen not to formally commit ourselves to the two UN reporting initiatives, nor
does the Bank have formal climate or human rights policies.
This decision should be viewed in light of the
fact that we already endeavour to abide by
the principles, and also that our activities
are very locally slanted.
In order to concentrate efforts and make
them explicit and measurable, we regularly single out special CSR themes. This approach is based on our firm belief that the
best results are obtained by focusing on
one thing at a time. This also means that
efforts will evolve over time. We follow up on
the themes highlighted one year by measuring them in subsequent years. This ensures that words and headlines are transformed into concrete actions and tangible
improvements.

Understanding finance
Since 2013, “Understanding finance” has
been our special focus area. We chose this
particular topic because a number of surveys show that children and young people
extensively lack basic insight into financial
concepts and issues – and thus the skill sets
required to act and make decisions affecting one’s personal finances.
Precisely because this topic is so important,
the inclusion of financial insight in school
curricula has gained widespread interest
both politically and in the educational and
financial sectors. This will entail a lengthy
process, but Spar Nord and other financial
institutions can make a vital contribution
by developing materials and making them
available.
Educationally speaking, various aspects
of personal finances notably constitute a
highly relevant field of instruction - particularly in maths, but also in social sciences.
In keeping with the Bank’s business model,
Spar Nord has prepared initiatives based
on cooperation with primary and lower
secondary schools in the local community.
The goal is to develop a series of educational materials jointly with experts in maths
and didactics and to make them available
free of charge to schools and teachers who
want to cover the subject in their lessons.
The first classroom material was a folder titled “Wising up on money”, which caters to children aged 13 to 15 (classes 7-8)
and addresses topics like interest, savings,
loans and currency. This educational folder
has now been distributed in 50,000 copies
to schools nationwide – and has generally
been received very positively.

In January 2014, we published ”The Book on
Money”, which targets the youngest classes
and deals with the basics required for understanding finances. The free material is
aimed at maths teachers but is also available at Spar Nord’s local banks for parents
who want to discuss these topics with their
children. Finally, Spar Nord’s employees offer
to give guest lectures to the relevant age
brackets and to discuss the main topics
contained in the material with them.
In April 2014, the app “Chickenfeed” was
launched, the purpose of which is to give
kids aged 3-5 some basic understanding
of money, coins, prices, etc., via play. From
the time it was launched until end-2016,
the app had been downloaded more than
50,000 times.
In 2015, Spar Nord entered into a formalized partnership with the local primary and
lower secondary schools in the Municipality
of Aalborg, and the Bank’s employees are
therefore dedicating a total of 100 working
days each year to introducing senior pupils
to a variety of topics related to their personal finances. The cooperation continued
in 2016.
Local initiatives
Dedicated involvement in local community
activities in the areas where the Bank operates is a central element of Spar Nord’s
strategy and business model. This commitment is manifested both in the way that
the Bank participates in and contributes
to activities concerning sports and cultural
events as well as association activities and
in the funding granted by the Bank and the
Spar Nord Foundation to worthy causes
pursued in local communities. In total, the
Bank made contributions of just under DKK
25 million towards the causes mentioned,
and the Spar Nord Foundation distributed
800 grants totalling DKK 32 million.
For more information, please refer to
the Bank’s website at www.sparnord.com/
csr.

