UNITED INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES LIMITED

CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY

S

ince its foundation, UIE has invested in the
agro-industrial sector, particularly palm oil.
It attaches great importance to maintaining
high Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”)
standards and strives to grow in a socially and environmentally responsible way, while meeting the interests of its stakeholders.

As UIE is a holding company, it has not developed its own CSR policies but highly supports UP and MSAB to operate in an ethical and
professional manner.

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

36

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

UNITED INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES LIMITED

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

Furthermore, UP is taking the sustainability certification to a higher level, through the “RSPO NEXT”, which is
avoluntaryadd-ontotheexistingPrinciples&Criteria
for sustainably grown palm oil dedicated to furthering
thefightagainstdeforestationandgasemissionsfrom
palm oil production as well as strengthening human
right commitments. The “RSPO NEXT” certification is
the world’s strictest for any agricultural crop but also
amongst the most credible. UP is moving towards
“RSPONEXT”certificationby2018.

Although UIE is a holding company, it takes social responsibility seriously, and thus encourages both UP
and MSAB to:
• protect the environment and natural resources by
applying environmentally responsible production
methods;
• secure the well-being of employees by providing
good and safe working conditions; and

UP continuously aims to align business values, purposes and strategy with CSR principles grouped into the
following main areas:

• uphold human rights and be responsible members
of the communities in which they are part of.

EMPLOYEES
The success and achievements of UP are highly correlated with its employees. The employees are core
assets of UP and their welfare and rights are of key importance in every aspect of its operations. UP focuses
on developing and enhancing each individual’s skills,
capabilities and motivation by providing continuous
training and supervision.

An overview of the CSR work and commitments of UP is
illustrated below. MSAB is not included, as it is a holding company with shares in six publicly listed companies, each with their own CSR approach. For further
information about the issues relevant for the individual
companies, please see the companies’ annual reports,
sustainability reports and their websites.

UP supports diversity in a working environment where
there is mutual trust and respect and where employees
feel encouraged and responsible for the success of the
company.

UNITED PLANTATIONS
UP’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy focuses on
continuous care, commitment and responsibility towards its employees, the environment, the community
and the marketplace in which it operates. UP remains
committed to conducting business in a manner that
achieves sustainable growth whilst maintaining a high
degree of social and environmental responsibility.

UP is also committed to maintaining a safe and healthy
workplaceforallstaff.Thecompanyensuresthatsafety operating procedures and system checks for all processes are in place and product quality standards are
maintained in a responsible manner.

A vital part of UP’s CSR Policy is its commitment to the
Principles and Criteria of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm oil (“RSPO”). The Company has for several
yearsleadthefieldinsustainablepalmoilproduction.
UP was one of the initial palm plantation signatories
totheRSPOin2004andthefirstCompanytoachieve
re-certification of the RSPO, valid from 2014 and five
years ahead. UP takes pride in being recognized as a
certifiedproducerofsustainablepalmoil;eversinceit
becametheworld’sfirstproducerofcertifiedsustainable palm oil in August 2008, it has introduced additional environmental practices of higher standards. For the
Indonesian estates, UP has targeted to move towards
fullcertification,includingRSPOandISPO(Indonesian
Sustainable Palm Oil Principles & Criteria), by 2018.

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

During 2016, UP continued to provide a number of social welfare initiatives to its employees and their families as well as to the local communities by securing
child care, primary schools, well-equipped hospitals
and health clinics, places of worship, bus subsidies for
school children, a bakery and an old folks home that
cares for the retired and aged employees.
Furthermore, 41 scholarships were granted to children
of UP’s employees in 2016, thus enabling these students to attend their tertiary studies.

37

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

UNITED INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES LIMITED

COMMUNITY
UPstrivestobeatrustedcorporatecitizenandtofulfill
its responsibilities to the societies and local communities in which it operates and thus is an integral part of.

ed employees and advanced technology. UP aims at
continuous improvement and works towards building
long-term relationships through interaction and discussions with all stakeholders in the market place.

UP believes in building good relationships with the employees and their families, and promotes socioeconomic policies and progress in the surrounding communities. Apart from improving welfare standards, ensuring
high standard educational facilities, providing medical
care and housing facilities, supporting investments in
infrastructureprojectsaswellasofferingdevelopment
activities, the Company encourages communities to
participate in sporting and social activities by providing
facilitiessuchasfootballfields,communityhalls,badminton courts etc. The sporting events enhance friendship and help to create a strong sense of community
spirit. UP also engages with smallholders and has taken
the initiative to start up Smallholders’ Field Day, where
farmers from local districts in Malaysia are invited to
the plantation to get a better understanding of good
agricultural practices, sustainability initiatives and environmental protection. In addition, the smallholders
receive training sessions in safe handling of pesticides,
optimal harvesting procedures and fertilizer application in order to support and assist them with their agricultural interests.

ENVIRONMENT
UP strives to be recognised as a leader in sustainable
agricultural practices, respecting the balance between
economy and ecology. UP is committed to continuously reducing the environmental impact of its operations
byimprovingprocedures,minimizingwasteandoverall carbon footprint as well as implementing new and
greener technologies.
UP is increasingly committed to the protection of biodiversity, avoidance of high carbon stock land use and
the protection of wildlife. New frameworks such as the
High Carbon Stock (“HCS”) Assessment have been implemented to evaluate the change in Carbon Stock and
to develop a detailed Sustainability Plan for the land
reserved for development. UP requested Deameter
Consulting to perform a HCS assessment in accordance
with RSPO’s New Planting Procedure (“NPP”) with the
objective to produce a land use map indicating which
areas could be developed for Plasma plantations and
which areas ideally should be set aside for conservation. The final report was released in August 2016,
indicating the concession area, the outcome of the
HCS, High Conservation Value (“HCV”), Free, Prior and
Informed Consent (“FPIC”) and peat surveys, thereby
incorporating social and environmental considerations
in line with RSPO’s NPP guidelines. Daemeter’s assessment found that 40% of the concession area surveyed
is recommended to be conserved, as it is either considered HCS, HCV or located on peat soils. Hence, UP
is now in full compliance to its No Deforestation Policy
of July 2014.

At its Indonesian Plantations, UP is actively involved
with a government project known as the Plasma
Scheme designed to assist smallholders to become
independent plantation growers. Under the Plasma
Scheme, UP’s role is helping local smallholders with
e.g. supplying the necessary resources (including the
land being developed), training in developing oil palm
plantations, which includes environmentally responsible land clearing and cultivation, as well as economic
aid. When the land has been developed and managed
by UP for one cycle, it is thereafter handed over to the
smallholder for self-management. The objective is to
provide more opportunities for the smallholders and
help alleviate poverty.

Significantinvestmentshavebeenmadeinpromoting
green energy starting with the fully integrated biomass
reciprocating boiler and the construction of four biogasplants.Theseprojectshavehelpedsignificantlyto
reduce emissions of CO2 by 70% and CH4 by 80% at the
operating units.

To date 552 hectares of Plasma have been developed
for 425 smallholders and another additional 1,000
hectaresareexpectedtobeprovidedanddevelopedto
surrounding communities during 2017 to 2019.

The fifth and final biogas plant is scheduled to be finalizedin2017,whichwillresultinallthemillshaving
methane capture facilities in the form of biogas plants.
Furthermore, to enhance biomass utilisation, plans are
underway for the construction of two additional units
of biomass reciprocating boilers at the Jendarata and

MARKETPLACE
UP is committed to providing high quality products
and services to customers worldwide through dedicat-

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

38

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

UNITED INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES LIMITED

UIEpalmoilmills,whichareexpectedtobecompleted
by 2018.

hassetasideapproximately30%ofitslandconcession
for the purpose of conservation.

Another turning point reached in 2016 was the successful completion of the UIE Electrification Project,
which makes it possible to convert biogas, generated
from the UIE biogas plant, to electricity and selling the
generated electricity back to the national grid, thereby
improving UP’s carbon footprint further.

In order to develop effective conservation strategies,
UP and Copenhagen Zoo have formed a partnership,
and a Biodiversity Department (“BioD”) has been established on UP’s Lada Estate in Indonesia. The BioD
is responsible for mainstreaming environmental concerns into standard operational procedures (focus is
on activities primarily within biodiversity, habitat and
ecosystem, forestry and rehabilitation) and has been
an important milestone for the Company’s target of
producing certified sustainable palm oil in Indonesia
as well as being able to document the environmental
integrity of its Indonesian operations.

In early 2016, a comprehensive update to the Life Cycle
Assessment (“LCA”) study of palm oil at UP was undertaken, providing a clear overview of the development in
theCompany’seffortstoreduceitscarbonfootprintas
well as identifying additional areas for further improvement. UP continues to remain a frontrunner in terms of
implementing greenhouse gas reducing projects within
the Plantation Industry.

One of the major activities of the BioD is monitoring
the baseline biodiversity data, where new species continue to be recorded. The data shows that the number
of species increased with 24% in 2016 compared to the
2015 records, whereof the greater part were trees.

The LCA report shows, among others, that the four
Clean Development Mechanism (“CDM”) projects, which
have been registered, have helped reduce the annual
emissions of greenhouse gasses by at least 125,000 MT
CO2 (eq). The company has thus met its target of reducingthe“CarbonFootprint”pertonneofrefinedpalmoil
produced by more than 33% when compared to pre2005 levels. With additional investments and more initiatives, UP aims at reducing “Carbon Footprint” per MT
ofrefinedpalmoilproducedby50%in2018compared
to pre-2005 levels.

For further information about UP’s commitment to
CSR, please see the UP’s Sustainability Report enclosed
in the Annual Report (pages 30-161) or visit the website
www.unitedplantations.com.

UPhasastrongcommitmenttominimizingtheuseof
pesticides via the Integrated Pest Management (“IPM”)
Programme, e.g. by establishing beneficial flowering
plants, monitoring pest outbreaks, carrying out biological treatment and using barn owls, leopard cats, cobras
and monitor lizards as predators of rats in the plantation landscape (a pair of barn owls together with its
chicks can e.g. consume about 800-1,000 rats per year).
The results are very positive; UP’s use of pesticide is e.g.
4-5 times lower per tonne of oil produced compared to
Rapeseed farmers and about 36-40 times lower compared to Soybean farmers, delivering substantial benefitsforthesocietyingeneral.
More than 6,000 hectares have been set aside for conservation purposes (jungle reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and green corridors), representing approximately
10% of UP’s total planted area. The aim is to encourage
biodiversity and wildlife on UP’s estates as well as to
preserve flora and fauna. In Indonesia, the Company

ANNUAL REPORT 2016

39

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

