Corporate Social Responsibility

FirstFarms focuses on sustainable development and assumescorporate social responsibility (CSR) in connection withits acquisition of land and companies in Eastern Europeancountries and in particular in connection with the subsequentoperations. Social responsibility is for FirstFarmsabout how the company acts towards customers and suppliers,how the employees are treated and especially howthe company enters into the local community in EasternEurope where FirstFarms is present. FirstFarms’ policy isfor the subsidiaries to comply with all environmental andanimal welfare requirements such as the various working environmentand training requirements in force in the country,where the respective farms are placed.EnvironmentFirstFarms does not wish to harm the nature or the environmentas a result of the company’s activities in theEastern European countries and so the company wishes toensure compliance with environmental rules.In compliance with legislation in the countries whereFirstFarms operates, the company monitors the use of pesticidesand fertilisers. Pesticides which are not approved inthe country in which the company carries out agriculturalactivities are not used by the company. The company complieswith legislation in respect of the quantities and use ofboth organic and non-organic fertilisers.In some areas, special environmental agreements mustbe observed; in these areas, which are cultivated under EUenvironmental consideration rules, the rules are monitored inregards to field plans, crop rotation and spraying restrictions.In 2007, FirstFarms acquired the Slovakian agriculturalcompany Mlyn Zahorie A/S, a company with over 2,000hectares of leased land. Approx. half of this land is certifiedfor organic production, which means that FirstFarms is ableto offer organic farm produce for sale.To avoid that the employees are involved in environmentalaccidents the company ensures that the employees havethe requisite, statutory training in how to use the differentsprays. Such training is provided on an ongoing basisand is refreshed at least once a year upon the company’sinitiative.

Animal welfareFirstFarms wishes to improve efficiency and operate profitablefarms, but not at the expense of animal welfare. Thatis why the company seeks to ensure that the animals donot suffer any distress or injury from the activities pursuedby the company in Eastern Europe.To avoid animal abuse and negligence during transport ofthe company’s animals, buyers and carriers of FirstFarms’animals have documented that they are in compliance withapplicable animal transport legislation. FirstFarms thus ensuresits compliance with all applicable animal transport legislationin the countries where the company operates. Inthe EU the regulation of animal transport is specified inexactly the same manner in all member states in the formof Council Regulation.FirstFarms complies with local country rules in regard tomedication and retention deadlines; consequently, the onlymedicine stock kept are known by the authorities and inspectedon a regular basis. The company collaborates closelywith the veterinary authorities in the countries wherethe company operates. FirstFarms is also providing supplementarytraining to local vets with the assistance of theirDanish counterparts. This ensures optimal treatment of theanimals.FirstFarms seeks to avoid supplying milk with medicationresidue to the dairies and thus to the consumers. This isdone by milking cows that have received medical treatmentseparately, so that this milk is not accidentally mixed withthe milk supplied to the dairies.In addition to retraining of local veterinarians, thecompany also assists with education and retraining of hooftrimmers in order to ensure proper treatment of hooves andto avoid leg injuries. This means that the highest possibleregard is paid to animal welfare at the same time as lossof productivity is avoided. Local staffs are also trained inanimal welfare in order to ensure that the animals enjoyoptimum conditions. The employees follow the programme:“COW signals – cow behaviour and welfare”, which enablesthem to observe whether the animals enjoy optimumconditions.