·8·

· Group annual review ·

Environmental issuesWe are constantly focusing on our responsibility towards the externalenvironment and the environmental footprint of our activities. Compliancewith current legislation and other environmental requirementsforms a natural basis for our environmental actions.In 2008, we began exploring possibilities for environmental improvements.At our building sites and in our offices the aim is to identify thepotential for financial and energy savings for implementation in 2009.The aim is to lower the environmental impact of all our activities towhat is technically and financially feasible. We have also heightenedour focus on advice on and development of solutions that are moreenvironment-friendly.We identify the environmental factors and risks associated with eachproject to ensure that appropriate environmental action can be taken.We do this on the basis of a well-proven and recognised environmentalmanagement system and in collaboration with clients and businesspartners. We also wish to help shape attitudes in society so as toheighten the focus on making it financially attractive for clients to optfor the climate-friendly option.Health and safety and qualityMT Højgaard has built up an extensive quality management organisationand practices quality management on all public and private buildingprojects. We follow up closely on all projects with respect both tohealth and safety and quality to ensure consistent delivery of high qualityand the fewest possible errors.MT Højgaard wishes to be at the cutting edge in the health and safetyfield. This implies an obligation to work in a concerted manner to improvesafety and reduce the number of occupational accidents. Wemeet this obligation through information, instruction and risk assessmentof coming projects. We also carry out inspection visits to individualworkplaces and investigate occupational accidents.In 2008, we achieved our safety target, which was fewer than 30 occupationalaccidents per one million hours worked. In 2008, the actualfrequency was 26.3. That is a significant improvement on last year, reflectingprevious years’ targeted efforts and attitude-shaping in relationto health and safety and safety culture. MT Højgaard aims to cut theaccident frequency rate still further in 2009, to fewer than 25 occupationalaccidents per one million hours worked.We want to improve our health and safety performance still further. TheConfederation of Danish Industry (DI) provides us with inspiration forour future action in the health and safety field and an insight into howsafety work is organised in the UK and the USA. This also enables us tomaintain and develop our competencies in this field.

Global Reports LLC

