CSR report, pursuant to Section 99 a of the Danish
Financial Statements Act
Corporate social responsibility
Ambu takes a targeted approach to corporate social
responsibility (CSR) based on the strong belief that it
creates value for the company as well as for society
when Ambu assumes responsibility through the way in
which the company operates and through its products.
Read more at www.ambu.com/CSR.

Human rights and business ethics
We work continuously to strengthen our profile in the
field of human rights and do not accept discrimination on
the grounds of religion, race, skin colour, gender, age,
sexual or political orientation, and we focus on ensuring
that nobody is exposed to injustice or abuse, and that
everybody enjoys freedom of speech.

Ambu’s CSR work is inspired by the principles set out in
the UN’s Global Compact initiative. The Global Compact
is a set of internationally recognised principles which the
UN encourages businesses worldwide to live up to.

We are continuing our work on human rights, among
other things through our Code of Conduct, which
supports the basic human rights, prohibits child labour
and guarantees a safe work environment. Our Code of
Conduct also prohibits bribery and corruption. With a
view to aligning our ethical guidelines for important
suppliers and distributors, we have in the current year
combined our two codes of conduct for suppliers and
distributors into a common set of rules, and the process
of implementing the new Code of Conduct has been
initiated.

Guidelines on Ambu’s CSR work
1. We respect internationally proclaimed human rights
and do not want to be complicit in human rights
abuses.
2. We prohibit the use of forced and child labour.
3. We work for a safe and healthy work environment.
4. We do not accept bribery or other kinds of
corruption.
5. We focus on reducing Ambu’s environmental impact
in our work on innovation and in the production and
distribution of our products.
6. We use materials efficiently, and strive to optimise
packaging and waste handling.
7. We work to reduce energy consumption.

We have not made observations that may indicate that
our rules have been broken.
Ambu collaborates with educational institutions, which
means that we take on trainees, interns and students for
the benefit of both Ambu and the people concerned.
Work environment
Ambu remains focused on ensuring a safe and healthy
work environment, which has resulted in another green
smiley from the Danish Working Environment Authority.
Our production units follow the same management
system.

We are committed to abiding by the laws and regulations
of the countries in which we operate. In the absence of
adequate laws and regulations, we refer to recognised
international standards and industry norms.
Organisation of CSR work
The CSR organisation has been strengthened, and the
CSR work is now being handled by the executive vice
presidents for Finance, Operations and Sales together
with staff from R&D and the legal department. The CSR
unit meets every quarter and on an ad hoc basis as and
when required.

Evaluating
experience
with
end-of-life
environmental profiles
In cooperation with external partners, Ambu has
prepared an end-of-life environmental profile for the
aScope 3 videoscope. In the course of 2015/16,
experience with end-of-life environmental profiles has
been gained from the market. Environmental
documentation in the form of end-of-life profiles are
deemed to be relevant, but sometimes difficult to
communicate.

Ambu’s CSR work in 2015/16
Below follows a description of the initiatives announced
in the latest annual report, including the results achieved
by Ambu in 2015/16.

Climate
Ambu has obtained climate data from its production units
pursuant to the guidelines described in the Green House
Gas Protocol (GHGP) Scope 1 and Scope 2 for the past
three years, and the data have been converted into CO 2
equivalents per year. The data show that the
development in CO 2 emissions (in %) is less than the
increase in production output (in tonnes). Ambu expects
significant growth in the years to come. Increased
production means an increased impact on the
environment. Ambu will continue its work to reduce the
increase in CO 2 equivalents from production relative to
the increase in production volumes.

Substitution of classified phthalates in products
Ambu is dedicated to ensuring that our products are as
safe for the environment and for patients as at all
possible. Ambu has very successfully substituted
classified phthalates in a wide range of products, for
example laryngeal masks, face masks and resuscitators.
In 2015/16, Ambu updated and extended its policy on the
use of phthalates in medical devices to also include
training manikins. The goal is to ensure that, by the end
of 2019, all Ambu’s products and training manikins are
free of classified phthalates.

34

Environment
The production units have been working to increase the
recycling of production waste via waste separation at
source as well as selling the waste for recycling outside
Ambu. Over a two-year period, we have succeeded in
increasing the level of recycling significantly through
focused efforts.

Initiatives in 2016/17
In the next financial year, focus will be on the following
initiatives:
•
Continue the substitution of classified phthalates
•
Work to establish climate targets for the increase in
CO 2 equivalents relative to the increase in
production volumes
•
Continue the implementation of the updated Code
of Conduct

35

