Ambu’s CSR work in 2012/13

Corporate social
responsibility

Below follows a description of the initiatives mentioned
in the previous annual report. Information is also
provided on the results achieved by Ambu in 2012/13.

Corporate social responsibility
Ambu takes a targeted approach to corporate social
responsibility (CSR) based on the strong belief that it
creates value for the company as well as for society if
Ambu takes responsibility through the way in which the
company operates and through its products. Read more
at www.ambu.com/CSR.

New phthalate policy
Ambu is dedicated to ensuring that our products are as
safe for the environment and for the patient as at all
possible. Ambu has therefore elected to draw up a
phthalate policy in which Ambu undertakes to replace
the phthalate DEHP and other classified phthalates in
all products before 2017. Ambu is already well on the
way to achieving this, and in 2013 thus launched
phthalate-free versions of the products UltraSeal
Pediatric, Disposable Facemask, SPUR II, ResCue
Mask and Aura-i.

In 2012/13, Ambu’s efforts have been concentrated on
strengthening the collaboration with educational
institutions, on working towards better and safer
phthalate-free medical devices as well as on the work
on business ethics.

Business ethics
Ambu will not tolerate corruption and therefore
continues to raise awareness of the company’s anticorruption policy, among other things by offering training
in the policy.

Ambu’s CSR work is based on the principles set out in
the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Global Compact is a
set of internationally recognised principles which the UN
encourages businesses worldwide to live up to.

Ambu has also continued its efforts to disseminate
knowledge of and expand the scope of Ambu’s Code of
Conduct, which was launched during the previous
financial year. The Code of Conduct has, among other
things, been expanded to cover distributors, which
means that the policy requires suppliers to uphold the
same human rights and workers’ rights standards as
Ambu. With this update, which is currently being
implemented, the entire Ambu organisation as well as
distributors and suppliers are covered by the company’s
Code of Conduct.

Guidelines on Ambu’s CSR work
1. We work to promote diversity and nondiscrimination in employment.
2. We work for a safe and healthy work environment.
3. We prohibit the use of forced and child labour.
4. We support collaboration with educational
institutions.
5. We focus on reducing Ambu’s environmental
impact in our work on innovation and in the
production and distribution of our products.
6. We use materials efficiently, and strive to optimise
packaging and waste handling.
7. We work to reduce energy consumption.
8. We are committed to abide by the laws and
regulations of the countries in which we operate. In
the absence of adequate laws and regulations, we
refer to recognised international standards and
industry norms.
9. We do not accept bribery or other kinds of
corruption.

Employee satisfaction survey
The work on an employee satisfaction survey, which
was mentioned in last year’s annual report as one of
this year’s focus areas, has been postponed until next
year.
Collaboration with educational institutions
Focus has been directed at strengthening collaboration
with educational institutions. This has meant, among
other things, that Ambu has taken on more trainees,
interns and students at a global level for the benefit of
both the company and the students.

Organisation of CSR work
A CSR unit has been set up to work with CSR,
comprising employees from Marketing, HR and R&D.
The CSR unit reports to the Executive Management
Team and meets every quarter and on an ad-hoc basis
as and when required.

Initiatives in 2013/14
In the next financial year, focus will be on the following
initiatives:
Continuing the efforts to develop and launch
phthalate-free products.
Conducting a global employee satisfaction survey.
Continuing the collaboration with educational
institutions.

27

