SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
Statutory report cf.
Section 99a of the
Danish Financial
Statements Act

W

ork on social responsibility is based on Arkil's
CSR policy and is anchored in the Group's values. We comply with laws and regulations regardless of where we are. We have targeted our focus on
climate, environmental and working conditions and we support the United Nations' Global Compact, which means that
respect for human rights, labour rights and zero tolerance
in relation to corruption and bribery are fully integrated elements of our code of business principles, available to read
on our website, www.arkil.dk. Sustainability, both social and
financial, is an increasingly important part of the Group's
commercial basis, development and operations.

Arkil's CSR policy
At Arkil, we take responsibility and contribute to the society
we are part of, regardless of where we operate. We do this
through the Group's CSR policy, which has four focus areas:
Ensuring decent working conditions and a safe workplace for
our employees.
Arkil will not contribute to social dumping or exploitation.
Arkil employees have decent pay and working conditions
that comply with applicable agreements and legislation in
the area. The safety in our workplaces must always be excellent and Arkil does not simply comply with working environment legislation, it is also our declared goal to be a leading company in terms of the safety of our employees.
Educating our employees
Arkil is a company which employees a relatively large proportion of people without specific educational qualifications. Arkil recognises that it is in the best interest of the
company, our employees and society for the employment
options of this group to be managed properly. Group policy
is therefore to educate, for example, structural apprentices
and asphalt workers in line with our activities and also to
offer further education schemes for all employee groups.
Investing in the right solutions
Arkil wishes to prevent pollution from its operations to the
extent possible by investing in energy-efficient solutions
and promoting energy-saving initiatives in the various
Group activities. Arkil also actively participates in recycling
trials, including construction materials, combustion slag
and asphalt in its projects. Arkil also investigates and develops, as part of everyday business, advanced environmental
technology solutions and methods to prevent and clean up
pollution caused by others.

Guarantee
Arkil's customers must have confidence that we fulfil our
social responsibility at all levels and we will therefore actively follow up on and, where possible, commit our partners and subcontractors to our CSR policy.
This policy applies to the entire Arkil group, including foreign subsidiaries.

Human rights
Arkil supports and respects internationally recognised human rights.
The Group's code of business principles requires all suppliers to also support and respect human rights. The consequence of failure to comply is that the collaboration with
the supplier will be stopped. (See code of business principles at www.arkil.dk)

Knowledge, expertise
and education
In 2015, Arkil employed 1,967 employees, of whom 468 are
administrative employees. 302 employees have a engineering/technical background. Arkil comprises a broad range of
committed employees, many of whom have high specialist
professional expertise within the Group's business areas.
Employee knowledge levels and the ability to continue to
convert this knowledge to create value for our customers'
projects represents a substantial competitive advantage in
which Arkil invests great educational resources to maintain
and expand upon.
Active HR and education policies allow us to constantly expand employee expertise and knowledge levels through external and internal training courses. The increasing specialisation and internationalisation of Arkil's activities means
that it is crucial for us to continue to attract, retain and further educate the most talented employees in the construction industry.

Activities and
achievements in 2015
In 2015, we focused in particular on apprentices. Arkil has
an extensive tradition of training many talented apprentices. It is essential for Arkil to take responsibility for training young people for the construction industry to ensure
that we and the industry as a whole also have the manpower to carry out the many infrastructure projects that will
arise in the future. At the end of 2015, Arkil Denmark employed 42 structural and paving apprentices and 11 apprentices within administration, machine operation and asphalting. Arkil has declared a goal for 10% of the employee base
to be made up of students in the departments that employ

MANAGEMENT REPORT 23

apprentices. This is a goal that we have met for a number
of years and which is among the highest in the industry. Of
the many apprentices trained in 2015, several passed with
special recognition, which testifies that the structured efforts and the mentor scheme systematised by Arkil pays off
for the young people. In 2015, 24 students sat their apprenticeship exams. 24 passed, including 9 with special recognition or honours, and only 3 dropouts in 2015. A large proportion of the fully trained apprentices often continue working at Arkil.

Environmental and
climate conditions

We therefore want to remain at the forefront when it comes
to the recruitment of students. In 2015, we therefore
launched a major online-only campaign to attract young apprentices during a time at which young people are in great
demand. A student portal, www.arkil-elev.dk, and the Facebook page www.facebook.com/arkilelever will contribute to
increasing the focus on the educational possibilities for students at Arkil. The Facebook page is administered by the
young students themselves and focuses on everyday student life at Arkil. In addition to the new universe, a specific
student campaign was also run on behalf of Arkil at
www.elevplads.dk for a period of time.

Arkil's asphalt activities are ISO 9001 certified and also
comply with the environmental standard ISO 14001 and the
working environment standard OHSAS 18001. All our asphalt products are also CE marked in accordance with
DS/EN 13108.

Among hourly-paid employees, there has been a continued
focus on improving literacy levels, in part to strengthen professional standards and in part to ensure a better working
environment, greater safety and increased efficiency.
On a salaried level there is ongoing upgrading of expertise
at all levels for those in specialist roles and those with project and management responsibilities at various levels. In
2015, Arkil used multiple engineering students, typically
linked to one of our major projects around the country. Our
experience is that engineering students are energetic and
proactive and provide valuable assistance to the employees in the projects concerned.

2016 objectives
In 2016 the aim is to enhance HR efforts to ensure visibility
across the entire organisation. One of the crucial focus areas is to continue strengthening collaboration and job satisfaction among employees across all of Arkil, alongside
further systematisation of HR efforts to ensure constant
maintenance and upgrading of employee knowledge levels.
A key point will be to attract, retain and further educate employees. Our growth target also means that we will continue
to recruit more employees and we will therefore intensify
recruitment efforts in 2016 so that we can continue to attract the most talented employees in the industry.

Arkil's policy is to continuously ensure that we improve and
minimise our environmental impact through technological
progress and specific human efforts. Efforts to protect the
environment and create greater sustainability in production
take place in continuous collaboration, internally within the
organisation and with customers and consultants and in
connection with production and services.

Arkil's other divisions have, based on the knowledge and experience of the asphalt division, developed their own environmental management systems.

Activities in 2015
In 2015, Arkil focused on the reuse of raw materials and reduction in energy consumption across all branches of the
production process. Major initiatives include an extensive
renewal and renovation of the asphalt plant in Skrydstrup,
which means that the plant now complies with all applicable environmental regulations.
The EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) from 2012 lists a
number of binding measures for member states with regard to achieving the EU savings target of 20% by 2020.
This means, among other things, that member states are
obliged to ensure that large companies carry out energy audits to identify opportunities and reduce energy consumption. Arkil falls within the large company category, measured both in terms of finances and in terms of number of
employees and the statutory energy audit was therefore
conducted in 2015. Arkil therefore complies with the requirements set down in the EU Energy Efficiency Directive
(EED) and statutory instrument 1212. The purpose of the
energy audit is to carry out an assessment of energy consumption at Arkil A/S and identify energy-saving measures
that can be implemented for the purpose of reducing energy consumption in the company, where relevant.
The conclusions and recommendations set out in the energy audit report form, to the extent possible, the basis for
the 2016 environmental objectives.

2016 objectives
The company continuously works on conditions and initiatives that can reduce the overall environmental impact and
reduce fuel consumption. When we acquire new materials,

24 ANNUAL REPORT 2015

energy consumption is included as a key parameter during
selection.
In Denmark, Arkil has access to more than 450 vehicles of
up to 3,500 kg with a high average age, resulting in major
operating costs, including high fuel consumption. In order
to resolve the issues relating to, for example, operating
costs, a new car policy has been implemented to ensure
better finances and transparent operations.
Among other things, the car policy will include the introduction of a number of "standard cars" for which the replacement period will be six years going forward. All cars will be
leased and linked to a full service agreement for the duration of this period. Instructions are also being prepared for
users of the cars to manage issues relating to unnecessary
use and wear and tear. 70 new vans have been ordered so
far.
The aim is also to train our excavator operators in the correct use of the excavator operating modes. It is crucial both
with regard to carbon emission load and operating finances
that material is used correctly and excavator operators
therefore need to be trained in energy-efficient operations
during 2016.
At the same time, there will be an increased focus on
whether the ideal excavator is being used for each individual task. There is an assumption that excavators that are
too large or too small are sometimes used, resulting in inappropriate operating costs. Increased distribution and use
of logging equipment in excavators will serve as an indicator of the effect of the measures.
Arkil works continuously on the options to optimise the reduction of energy consumption in processes at asphalt
plants, including ongoing development of recipes. We will
also regularly assess whether it is possible to recover heat
from flue gas. In 2016 we will also initiate a process to
cover raw materials in certain locations. Here we also anticipate notable energy savings at asphalt plants.

Working environment
and working conditions
The overall purpose of Arkil's working environment policy is
to reduce the number of occupational accidents and ensure
that no-one is exposed to unnecessary risk at work.
The working environment has top priority at Arkil, partly
through a series of educational programmes and increased
focus on follow-up and prevention work. Arkil has a clear
objective of being one of the safest employers in the construction industry. This means that the accident rate must
be reduced and the number of days of absence due to accidents must also be reduced. In order to achieve this ob-

jective, a number of activities have been initiated that, together, will help promote a good working environment
across the entire organisation.

Activities in 2015
Risk assessments are generally carried out for all contracts
and the risk assessment will form the basis for the start-up
meetings. In several turnkey contracts, Arkil has volunteered for the coordinator role, ensuring that experiences
can be shared across the organisation. Several working environment coordinators have been trained in connection
with this.
The statutory working environment training has been established in collaboration with an external working environment consultant and Arkil, ensuring that the training material uses Arkil as its basis. This results in a greater understanding of the subjects that are being taught and ensures
direct usability of documents.

E-learning has been developed
and introduced across Arkil
E-learning material has been developed. The e-learning
deals with safety and the working environment and consists of:
A 25-minute film.
Different training material to ensure that the recipient
gains an understanding of and insight into the subject.
A number of validation questions to ensure that the recipient has understood the message.
All employees must complete the e-learning and new employees will complete the e-learning within the first 14 days
of employment. Each manager is responsible for ensuring
that their employees complete the e-learning.
New folders have also been created and these are considered a useful tool for the communication of health and
safety-related material:
Folder for subcontractors and partners concerning
health and safety at Arkil.
Instructions for machine operators.
Safety and working environment, e-learning.
80 new working environment representatives and working
environment managers were also elected across the organisation in 2015. The working environment committee is a
crucial forum for ensuring development, prevention, investigation and corrective action relating to the working environment at Arkil.

MANAGEMENT REPORT 25

Near-accidents
Reporting of near-accidents is considered a key instrument
in the prevention of accidents and targets have therefore
been established with regard to near-accident reporting.
In 2015, many more near-accidents were reported than the
previous year and communication relating to near-accidents will continue. The working environment department
will follow up on reported near-accidents and strives to provide feedback to the reporter within 14 days if the report results in changes to procedures or the ways in which the
work is carried out.

Occupational accidents
and accident rates
The number of reportable occupational accidents in Denmark in 2015 was 34, corresponding to an accident rate of
14. The target of reducing the number of occupational accidents by 30% has therefore been achieved. The accident
rate has steadily decreased for a number of years through
awareness and targeted efforts across the entire organisation. In 2014, the accident rate was 17.1.

A system has been developed for the purpose of focusing
on learning from accidents. For those accidents where
management finds that more people would benefit from
learning, special memorandums will be created for use as
instructions.

2016 objectives
In 2016, the working environment organisation will continue to focus on further reduction of the accident rate and
absence due to accidents based on the activities described.
The target is to reduce the accident rate from the current
14 in 2015 to 13 in 2016.
The psychological working environment will also be in focus, especially the limitation and reduction of stress among
Arkil employees.

Developments in absence due to sick leave are closely
monitored by Arkil and are given high priority. In 2015, absence due to illness was 4.4% compared to 3.9% in 2014.
The absence rate has fallen from 3.7 hours of absence per
1,000 working hours in 2014 to 1.7 hours of absence per
1,000 working hours in 2015.

Accident per 1 million man-hours worked

40.0
35.0
30.0

33.4

25.8

25.0

22.5 21.8

21.8

22.1

20.0

17.1

17.8

14.0

15.0
10.0
5.0

0.0
2011

2012
Arkil

2013

2014

Entire industry

26 ANNUAL REPORT 2015

2015

Hours lost per 1,000 man-hours worked

WORK ABSENCE 2011 - 2015

ACCIDENT FREQUENCY 2011 - 2015

5.0
4.0

4.6

3.7

3.7
3.4

3.0

2.8

2.6
2.2

1.9

2.0

1.7

1.0

0.0
2011

2012
Arkil

2013

2014

Entire industry

2015

