2016 CSR REPORT 1

2 2016 CSR REPORT

INTRODUCTION

R

eport on corporate social responsibility,
cf. Section 99 a and b of the Danish Financial Statements Act.

This report on the corporate social responsibility of the Arkil
Group is part of the management report in the 2016 Annual
Report, covering the financial period 1 January – 31 December 2016.
Arkil's work with corporate social responsibility stems from
its CSR policy and is rooted in the company's values. We
comply with laws and regulations regardless of where we
are. We have focused on climate, environmental and working conditions, and we support the United Nations' Global
Compact, which means that respect for human rights, labour rights and zero tolerance in relation to corruption and
bribery are fully integrated elements of our code of business principles, available to read on our website,
www.arkil.dk. Sustainability, both social and financial, is an
increasingly important part of the Group's commercial basis, development and operations.

2016 CSR REPORT 3

PREFACE

T

his is the Arkil Group's first independent CSR Re-

Our work on the report has also showed us that, in spite of

port. Collecting and structuring the information that

developments that we can be proud of, there is still plenty

forms the basis for the report has been an interest-

of room for improvement, including in the way in which we

ing exercise and it has provided the opportunity for some

measure and collect data. This is work that will be intensi-

reflection on how the work with CSR can be improved fur-

fied and that we look forward to seeing the results of. One

ther. Since the incorporation of the company, it has been

of the most important lessons we have learned through our

key to Arkil to ensure that the foundations of the company

efforts is that the costs associated with improving the com-

are based on socially responsible conduct and the subject

pany's CSR are very rapidly converted to proud employees,

is now more relevant than ever. This could relate to equality,

happy customers and, in the long term, an improved bot-

opportunities for the more vulnerable groups in society, en-

tom line.

vironmental impact or ethical financial conduct.
Arkil is extremely committed to delivering on its promises.

Jesper Arkil

No-one benefits from values that are just for show and our
efforts must be supported by facts and documentation that
we, and society, can measure ourselves against. We believe
that we have a lot to be proud of and we find that it pays to
focus on and set objectives for areas. One example is
health and safety, where poor developments some years
back were converted to massive success with noticeable
reductions in the number of reportable occupational accidents year after year. Or the effort to ensure more apprentices, which has surpassed what even we thought was possible.

4 2016 CSR REPORT

Chief Executive Officer

ARKIL GROUP
BUSINESS MODEL

A

rkil is one of Denmark's largest construction com-

We care for the road when it has been built and maintain its

panies, with well over 1,800 employees and a rev-

high level of quality.

enue of approximately DKK 3 billion in Denmark

and abroad.
Arkil carries out a diverse variety of construction projects
throughout the entire country on behalf of the Danish Road
Directorate, BaneDanmark and the many utility companies
throughout Denmark. We manage construction work, port
developments, foundations, tunnelling and major cable pro-

At the same time, an essential part of our everyday work is
to act with care, consideration and risk awareness.
Vision
Arkil strives to:


and innovative employees, as well as a positive, coop-

jects, leaving an enduring impression on the country's infra-

erative workplace with a high level of trust and integ-

structure. We manage all types of environmental remedia-

rity.

tion projects and lay asphalt on both municipal and state
roads. We also have a strong market presence in the area

Be a company that is home to professional, talented



Be a decentralised organisation with the delegation of

of road maintenance, and we are a pioneering private road

responsibilities, great flexibility and interdisciplinary

service provider.

collaboration.

With 75 years of experience, Arkil is a professional, highly



increase professional expertise at all levels.

qualified and often preferred partner for large public and private developers and consultants in Denmark. We place
great emphasis on combining the organisation's many con-





found across the entire Group.



pany was listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange in
1978, and today Arkil is guided by a professional board of

and limiting our environmental impact.
Values


2016.

Mission, vision and
values



We work efficiently and with flexibility.



We are innovative and work through dialogue rather
than confrontation.



of ensuring human rights and combating corruption and in

We are open and trustworthy, and we deliver on what
we promise.

As a construction company, Arkil is aware of the impact
that the company's activities have on society, both in terms

We take full responsibility for projects, people and environment.

directors. Arkil was founded in Haderslev in 1941 by Civil
Engineer Ove Arkil and celebrated its 75th anniversary in

Involved in the community of which we are a part
through social awareness, technological development

The control and management of the firm has remained in
the hands of the Arkil family for three generations. The com-

Be a safe workplace and continuously work to improve
the safety of all employees.

cipal contracts and turnkey contracts. This allows us to utilise the synergies between the diverse forms of expertise

Display care, consideration and awareness of risk in
our activities.

struction disciplines, for example when entering into framework agreements and partnership agreements, major prin-

Further educate the Group's employees to retain and



We deliver quality on time.

terms of impact on the environment and climate, as well as
social and employee conditions.
Social responsibility and CSR are therefore solidly rooted in
the Group's mission, vision and values. This is the foundation for our future development – to contribute to and care
for society.
Mission
Arkil builds the infrastructure of the future. We build
bridges, lay cables and create connections. We remediate
contaminated soil, build sewers and help create a cleaner
environment. We build from the ground up, lay foundations,
establish ports, produce asphalt and pave the way forward.

2016 CSR REPORT 5

6 2016 CSR REPORT

CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY AT
ARKIL
We have a responsibility

A

t Arkil, we take responsibility and contribute to the
society we are part of, regardless of where we operate. We do this through the Group's CSR policy,

which has four focus areas:
In addition to the CSR policy, the following principles and

These principles and policies are all available at
www.arkil.dk.
The CSR Policy forms the basis for work on education,
health and safety and the environment. There are also separate policies for each of these three areas, acting as the
basis for the identification of risks and the planning of specific initiatives and actions within the areas.

policies are included in the overall basis for the work with
corporate social responsibility:


Arkil's Code of Business Principles



Arkil's Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy



Arkil's Remuneration Policy

THE FOUR FOCUS AREAS OF THE CSR POLICY:

Ensuring proper working
conditions and a safe
workplace for our
employees

Educating our employees

Investing in the right
solutions

Guarantee

Arkil will not contribute to social

Arkil is a company which employs a

Arkil wishes to prevent pollution

Arkil's customers must have confi-

dumping or exploitation. Arkil em-

relatively large proportion of people

from its operations to the extent

dence that we fulfil our social re-

ployees have decent pay and work-

without specific educational qualifi-

possible by investing in energy-effi-

sponsibility at all levels, and we will

ing conditions that comply with ap-

cations. Arkil recognises that it is in

cient solutions and promoting en-

therefore actively follow up on and,

plicable agreements and legislation

the best interest of the company,

ergy-saving initiatives in the various

where possible, commit our part-

in the area. The safety in our work-

our employees and society for the

Group activities. Arkil also actively

ners and subcontractors to our CSR

places must always be excellent,

employment options of this group

participates

policy.

and Arkil does not simply comply

to be managed properly. Group pol-

grammes of, e.g., construction ma-

with working environment legisla-

icy is therefore to educate, for ex-

terials, combustion slag and as-

tion ‒it is also our declared goal to

ample, structural apprentices and

phalt in its projects. Arkil also re-

be a leading company in terms of

asphalt workers in line with our ac-

searches and develops, as part of

the safety of our employees.

tivities, as well as to offer further ed-

everyday business, advanced envi-

ucation programmes for all em-

ronmental technology solutions and

ployee groups.

methods to prevent and clean up

in

recycling

pro-

pollution caused by others.

This policy applies throughout the entire Arkil Group, including our foreign subsidiaries.

2016 CSR REPORT 7

"We have declared a goal for
10% of the employee base to be
made up of apprentices in the
departments that employ
apprentices"
At the end of 2016, Arkil Denmark employed 45 structural and paving apprentices,
as well as 13 apprentices within administration, machine operation and asphalting.
14 apprentices took their apprenticeship exams in 2016 and all of them passed. Of
the 14 apprentices, 10 passed with special merit. This shows that the structured effort, which also includes a systematic mentor scheme, has borne fruit, benefitting
both the young apprentices and Arkil. A large proportion of the fully trained apprentices often continue working at Arkil.

8 2016 CSR REPORT

KNOWLEDGE,
EXPERTISE AND
EDUCATION
Education Policy

T

to create value for our customers' projects represents a

he company wishes to employ people who are qualified to solve the tasks that must be performed, regardless of which level of the organisation the em-

substantial competitive advantage in which Arkil invests
great educational resources to maintain and expand upon.
Active HR and education policies allow us to constantly expand employee expertise and knowledge levels through ex-

ployee belongs to.
If required by a given task and provided it is in the best interests of the company, the company will contribute to ensuring that the employee can access the necessary further
education.

ternal and internal training courses. The increasing specialisation and internationalisation of Arkil's activities means
that it is crucial for us to continue to attract, retain and further educate the most talented employees in the construction industry.

The need for courses/continuing education will be clarified
for salaried employees as part of the annual employee appraisals with the immediate manager.
For hourly paid employees, the need will be determined

Activities and
achievements
in 2016

based on the discretion of the Head of Department, taking

For a number of years, Arkil has had a special focus on the

relevant wishes into account.

education of apprentices. In 2010, we set a goal for 10% of

In both cases, the overall decision will be linked to the budgets developed for the purpose.

the employee base to be made up of apprentices in departments that employ apprentices. Thanks to structured efforts within the area this goal has been achieved. Based on

Education can be provided internally within the company

the lessons learned from the structured efforts in the area,

and externally through various educational institutions.

the CEO of the Group, Jesper Arkil, has served as a member
of the government's expert committee, which in March

Knowledge, expertise
and education at Arkil

2017 published recommendations for better paths for post16 education.

In 2016, Arkil had 1,862 employees, of whom 194 were ad-

We achieved the established goals again in 2016. At the end

ministrative employees. 282 employees had an engineer-

of 2016, Arkil Denmark employed 45 structural and paving

ing/technical background.

apprentices, as well as 13 apprentices within administra-

Arkil comprises a broad range of committed employees,

tion, machine operation, EGU and asphalting.

many of whom have high specialist professional expertise

14 apprentices took their apprenticeship exams in 2016

within the Group's business areas. Employee knowledge

and all of them passed. Of the 14 apprentices, 10 passed

levels and the ability to continue to convert this knowledge

with special merit. This shows that the structured effort,

11,5%

600

11,0%

500

10,5%

400

10,0%

300

9,5%

200

9,0%

100

8,5%

Number of apprentices / hourly workers

Apprentices compared to hourly workers

APPRENTICES COMPARED TO HOURLY WORKERS

0
2014
Apprentices

2015
Hourly workers

2016
Apprentices compared to hourly workers

2016 CSR REPORT 9

which also includes a systematic mentor scheme, has
borne fruit, benefitting both the young apprentices and
Arkil. A large proportion of the fully trained apprentices often continue working at Arkil.

2017 Objectives
A new IT tool will be implemented at the start of 2017 to
support the HR department's work. The IT tool will act as a
portal for development, learning, evaluation and documen-

As in previous years, Arkil again used multiple engineering

tation. This tool will allow for greater focus on onboarding

apprentices in 2016, typically linked to one of our major pro-

and e-learning. Onboarding is the welcome Arkil gives to

jects around the country. Our experience is that engineering

new employees, creating the framework for a positive intro-

apprentices are energetic and proactive and provide valua-

duction to the company. The IT tool will allow new employ-

ble assistance to the employees in the projects concerned.

ees to gain the resources, skills, knowledge and conduct re-

Apprenticeship Campaign
In order to continually attract an adequate number of apprentices, an apprenticeship campaign was initiated in
2015. The aim was to improve the number of apprenticeship applications using a campaign that was communicated partly via the website www.arkil-elev.dk and partly via
a specific Facebook profile, where current apprentices post
about their everyday experiences on an Arkil apprenticeship.
The results of the campaign could be seen in 2016. Arkil
previously received occasional apprenticeship applications. In 2016, Arkil received 174 applications for the apprenticeships due to commence at the start of 2017. The
strategy of allowing the current apprentices to act as ambassadors for Arkil apprenticeships was therefore a success.
This success also resulted in the Danish Minister of Education visiting Arkil in 2016, where she learned about the apprenticeship initiative and met two of the apprentices: Nick
Johansen and Patrick Christiansen. 3F also paid a visit to
Arkil in 2016 to learn more about the initiatives in the area
of apprenticeships.

Greater priority for the HR area
One of the goals for 2016 was to give greater priority to the
HR area. This was achieved through organisational
changes that have resulted in increased focus on the area.

Activities and results in
Arkil's international
companies
Like the Danish departments, Arkil's international companies in Germany, Ireland and Sweden have an ongoing focus on employee education.
In Germany, particular efforts were made in 2016 to target
the individual courses and educational programmes to suit
the needs of the individual employees. After the course,
each employee must complete an evaluation form that is
subsequently analysed by management. The employee's
feedback is thereby included as an important part of the
overall evaluation of the educational initiatives.

10 2016 CSR REPORT

quired to quickly and efficiently find their place in their new
workplace.
The HR department has also initiated a recruitment analysis that will identify, purely geographically, where there is
insufficient manpower in Arkil and how to attract this specific workforce. The recruitment analysis remains a point of
focus and will continue into 2017.
At the same time, we will launch an initiative to ensure job
satisfaction during 2017. This is in continuation of the initiatives used in 2016 with the aim of reducing absence. The
initiatives have included meetings with employees who are
on sick leave, in collaboration with their immediate manager. In close collaboration with Arkil's Health & Safety department, HR will have a focus on proactive education of
managers with regard to both the physical and the psychological working environment in 2017.
Education and further education will continue to have a
high priority in 2017 just as in previous years. In order to
ensure continued high levels of education for apprentices,
we will implement a satisfaction survey among apprentices
in 2017. Our impression is that the mentor scheme that is
the mainstay of Arkil's education of apprentices is working
well but we would also like the apprentices' evaluation of
this. Not least because we know that mentors are crucial to
ensuring a successful apprenticeship period.
Targeted management training for middle managers will
also continue in 2017. A group of Arkil employees completed further education in "Management in Practice" and
"Project Management" during January 2016. These courses
contribute to building a common management culture
across Arkil and the targeted management training will
therefore continue in 2017.

Goals for Arkil's international
companies in 2017
Educational initiatives will continue to have great importance in
the international companies in 2017. In Germany, the goal for
2017 is to better equip employees to comply with internal and
external requirements and guidelines. This will take place
through the internal education of multiple employee groups
across all levels of the organisation.

2016 CSR REPORT 11

WORKING ENVIRONMENT
AND WORKING
CONDITIONS
Health & safety policy

N

o Arkil Group employee is to be exposed to
greater risk than is justified by the best possible
insight and knowledge. Company employees

must be able to expect, even after many years of employment, to not be subject to more wear and tear or
more negatively affected by the work environment than
would result from ordinary aging.


We comply with applicable health & safety regulations and requirements relevant to the company's
activities.



We minimise the health & safety risks for each individual through the correct expertise, instructions
and aids.



We communicate effectively and reciprocally with
our employees and stakeholders concerning health
& safety issues to ensure that the Health & Safety
Policy and objectives are clear to everyone.



We strive to ensure that Arkil's subcontractors and
suppliers comply with the company's Health &
Safety Policy.



Assessment of health & safety risks must take
place throughout the entire business chain, from
tendering to planning and implementation through
to the conclusion of a project. This also applies to
the procurement of machinery and services.



We strive for continued improvement of health &
safety in the company in order to achieve a healthier work culture.

Working environment
and working conditions
at Arkil, including risks
Since the employees are Arkil's most important asset
and essential to the company's success and results, the
most substantial risks are naturally linked to employee
conditions.
The overall purpose of Arkil's working environment policy is to reduce the number of occupational accidents
and ensure that no-one is exposed to unnecessary risks
at work.
The Health & Safety Policy is converted to action
through 2-year objectives supported by specific action
plans. The action plans are adjusted annually, so as to
best support the overall objectives.
This structured approach and a prioritised health &
safety organisation have ensured great improvements in
the area over the last four years.

12 2016 CSR REPORT

Activities and
achievements in 2016

Based on the evaluations, the Health & Safety department

One of the primary objectives for 2016 was to reduce the

day will be selected based on the requests from the Main

has found that the Health & Safety Day was a major suc-

accident rate from 14 in 2015 down to 13. At the end of
2016 we were happy to confirm that the goal for the year
had been met. This is the fifth year running in which we
have succeeded in reducing the accident rate.
We were also delighted when Arkil Asphalt received the "Årets Arbejdsmiljøpris" health & safety award from the Asphalt Industry in March 2016. The award is presented annually to the company with the fewest occupational accidents and which also has an increased focus on "near-accidents" and learning from these.
These excellent results show that the ongoing initiative to
reduce occupational accidents is paying for itself.

cess and has decided to repeat it in 2017. The theme of the
Health & Safety Committee.

Organisation of Health &
Safety Weeks
Two annual Health & Safety Weeks were introduced in 2016
as a new initiative. The Health & Safety Weeks will be included as fixed campaign initiatives in coming years, for the
purpose of involving all Arkil employees in the creation of a
safe and healthy working environment. The themes for the
weeks will be determined by Arkil's Main Health & Safety
Committee and the themes for 2016 were "Safety Rounds"
and "Near-accidents".

Continuing education for
health & safety
representatives

Learning from occupational
accidents

Arkil's health & safety department has an ongoing focus on

Arkil focuses on learning from the incident and prevention.

To ensure that occupational accidents are not repeated,

the health & safety representatives. There is considerable
scope to improve their roles, including through continuing
education and creating recognition of their function.

All occupational injuries must therefore be analysed and an
"analysis and learning for action" will be prepared based on
the analysis. This will be communicated to all employees

One of the action plans for 2016 was to educate the entire

via Arkil's new news module, "ArkilNews," which can be ac-

internal organisation in health & safety. A theme day was

cessed via the employee's mobile.

therefore held during spring 2016 for health & safety representatives, health & safety managers and the chairmen of
the local health & safety committees.

In 2016, proposals for corrective actions to prevent similar
occupational accidents were also set down in Arkil's standard documentation within the health & safety area. This
means that lessons learned from occupational accidents is

WORK ABSENCE 2012 - 2016

ACCIDENT FREQUENCY 2012 - 2016
22,5

21,8

21,8

5,0

22,1

20
17,1

18

17,8

15

14
11,8

10
5
0

Hours lost per 1,000 man-hours worked

Accident per 1 million man-hours worked

25

4,6

4,5
4,0

3,7

3,5
3,0

2,8

2,6

2,5
2,0

2,2
1,9

1,7

1,9
1,6

1,5
1,0
0,5
0,0

2012

2013
Arkil

2014
The Group

2015

2016

2012

2013
Arkil

2014

2015

2016

The Group

2016 CSR REPORT 13

now presented automatically in the documents used by

Another goal for 2017 is to introduce 'toolbox talks' at all

employees.

sites. Toolbox talks are brief, weekly meetings at which em-

Focus on the psychological
working environment
One of the goals for 2016 was to direct attention to the psychological working environment, including the incidence of
stress among Arkil employees.
Based on the above, Arkil applied for and was later awarded
funds from Forebyggelsesfonden (The Fund for Better

ployees and management meet to consider safety matters
relating to upcoming tasks and agreements for which risks
must be managed.
The company already has positive experiences of toolbox
talks, as such meetings support the provision of information to employees and the future planning of work with
a focus on safety. These positive experiences will form the
basis for the implementation of toolbox talks throughout

Working Environment and Labour Retention) for the proac-

Arkil as a whole.

tive prevention of stress in 2016.

Goals for Arkil's
international companies
in 2017

In 2017, these funds will be included in the targeted work to
improve the psychological working environment. This work
is being carried out by Arkil's Health & Safety department
and HR department.

Activities and results in
Arkil's international
companies in 2016
Arkil's Irish subsidiary, Arkil Ltd., complies with the OHSAS
18001 health and safety standard. This means that it works
systematically on the improvement of health & safety matters, including through the use of continual training and education of employees within the area of health & safety. As
such, some of the company's employees received further
qualifications in 2016, including in the correct management

A new office building was erected in 2016 for Arkil's Irish
company at one of the company's quarries. This has had a
substantial positive impact on the health & safety of the salaried employees working on site. Similar upgrades to the
office facilities at another of the company's locations are
scheduled to take place in 2017.
Also in 2017, the Arkil Group will focus on the exchange of
knowledge and experiences within the area of health &
safety between Danish and international companies. One of
the goals will be to investigate how the positive experience
of reducing the accident rate in Arkil's Danish companies
can be transferred to Arkil's company in Germany.

of machinery, tools etc. as well as first-aid.

2017 Objectives
In 2015 and 2016, health & safety work has focused espe-

ACCIDENT AND WORK ABSENCE FREQUENCY FOR THE
FOREIGN COMPANIES

cially on the improvement of the quality of procedures and

50

documents that form the basis for everyday work within the
area. There has also been a focus on the reporting of accidents and near-accidents as an important tool for learning
and prevention.
The internal systems and procedures are now in place and

40
30

in 2017 there will be a focus on attitudes and conduct.

20

Among other things, there will be a focus on new employee

10

inductions, as the statistics show that 37% of all occupational accidents affect hourly paid employees with a length
of service of less than one year with Arkil.
In connection with this, the plan is that work procedures will

0
2016

be standardised to ensure learning from previous undesired

Accidents per 1 million working hours

incidents, thereby ensuring that employees are instructed

Work absence per 1000 working hours

in their work. The local risk assessment must be adapted
for each project and employees must be instructed in its
use.

14 2016 CSR REPORT

ENVIRONMENTAL AND
CLIMATE CONDITIONS
Environmental Policy

W

In addition to specific measures to reduce environmental

e will work to limit the use of resources through

impact, Arkil's environmental initiatives also include staying

the increased reuse of materials and by minimis-

up-to-date with new environmental legislation that could

ing wastage.

have an impact on the Group's activities.

In connection with the procurement of new materials, we

We also stay abreast of development possibilities in the in-

will assess the environmental conditions in relation to tech-

dustry that could have a positive impact on the environ-

nology, finance, health and safety.

mental area. This takes place through our membership in

We will collaborate with suppliers, organisations and authorities to create a better environment together.

the Danish Association for Responsible Construction,
which includes working to promote sustainable solutions
within the property, construction and civil engineering in-

We will maintain the environmental management system

dustry.

so that it always complies with the requirements set out in

Activities and
achievements in 2016

the industry.

Environmental initiatives
at Arkil, including risks

A vehicle policy was implemented as planned in 2016 for

The most significant risks relating to climate and the environment are linked to the Group's energy consumption and
use of materials.

the Arkil Group's Danish companies. The vehicle policy sets
out the framework for the acquisition or replacement of
company vehicles, thereby establishing the foundations for
a future-oriented focus in terms of ensuring improved econ-

Arkil's initiatives to minimise the risks in this area take place

omy, operational transparency and minimisation of fuel

partly at Group level and partly in a decentralised fashion

consumption. The implementation of the vehicle policy de-

across Arkil's units and departments. Environmental condi-

rives from one of the recommendations for energy-saving

tions play an important role in everyday work, especially at

measures set out in the energy inspection report for 2015.

Arkil Asphalt and Arkil Miljøteknik.

In 2016, the vehicle policy resulted in the replacement of a

In November 2015, AURA Rådgivning carried out an energy

number of older vehicles with new, more environmentally

inspection at Arkil's premises and created an energy in-

friendly models. Our costings show a clear environmental

spection report based on its findings, including recommen-

effect of the replacement, as we have saved just over

dations for energy-saving measures. Several of these rec-

100,000 litres of fuel by replacing the older vehicles with

ommendations were implemented in 2016, both at Group

newer models.

level and at Arkil Asphalt.

FUEL COSTINGS – NEW CARS COMPARED WITH SOLD CARS

30
25

KM/L

20
15
10
5
0
Foremen vehicles

Small vehicles
Sold cars

Big vehicles

4WD

New cars

2016 CSR REPORT 15

Arkil Asphalt

Arkil Asphalt also participates in research and development

Arkil's asphalt activities are ISO 9001-certified and also
comply with the environmental standard ISO 14001 and the
working environment standard OHSAS 18001. All our asphalt products are also CE-marked in accordance with

projects within the environmental area, in collaboration
with external partners. The purpose is often to develop the
possibilities for increased reuse of asphalt, typically in road
structures.

DS/EN 13108. The emulsion plant is CE-marked in accord-

The "Roads2Rails" project commenced in 2016, with the In-

ance with DS/EN 13808.

stitute of Technology as the project leader and DTU,

Arkil Asphalt has been ISO certified since 1992 and has extensive experience when it comes to continual improvement of internal processes for the purpose of e.g. reducing
energy consumption in production.
In 2016, Arkil Asphalt installed a new covering for the raw
materials at the factory in Skive, based on the recommendations in the energy inspection report for 2015. The covering reduces the moisture levels in the materials and hence
also the energy consumption for drying, as the materials
are ready for use in the production of asphalt. The effect of
the new covering can be clearly seen from the energy consumption for production, which includes the covered materials with lower moisture levels. Variable material types and
storage periods do however mean that it is difficult to accurately measure the energy savings.

Banedanmark, Atkins Danmark A/S and Arkil as participants. The project aims to replace ballast stone with asphalt, thereby ensuring more efficient and sustainable railway operations. The project will run until 2020.
Arkil is also taking part in the "Symbiosis Project," in which
we are collaborating with COWI to test road surfacing with
30% recycled asphalt in SMA (stone mastic asphalt) and
50% recycled asphalt in AC (asphalt concrete). The road
regulations currently permit 15% recycled asphalt in SMA
and 30% recycled asphalt in AC.
Arkil Miljøteknik (Environmental technology)
For more than 20 years, Arkil has acquired a high level of expertise in soil remediation, and we have significant experience
of working with several different clean-up techniques. Arkil
thereby contributes directly to a cleaner environment by vir-

The plant at Arkil Asphalt's factory in Næstved has been

tue of the knowledge and expertise that has formed the basis

streamlined and production has been improved through in-

for the implementation of a number of environmental projects

ternal optimisation of workflows throughout 2016. An im-

in recent years.

proved workflow in production results in reduced energy
consumption and Arkil Asphalt thus has an ongoing focus
on sharing knowledge and experiences that could result in
optimisation of production.

Arkil's specialist department within this area, Arkil
Miljøteknik, specialises in in-situ remediation projects in
which the soil is cleansed directly without extensive digging. Arkil Miljøteknik has, among other things, contributed

ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN THE ASPHALT PRODUCTION

104
102

KWH/TON

100
98
96
94
92
90
88
2013

2014
Denmark

16 2016 CSR REPORT

2015
The Group

2016

to the development and implementation of new remedia-

could reduce the overall impact on the environment and

tion technologies in Denmark, such as damp-stripping, bio-

minimise fuel consumption. When we acquire new materi-

degradation and, most recently, gas thermal remediation.

als, energy consumption is included as a key parameter

With gas thermal remediation (GTR), oil pollution is re-

during selection.

moved by heating the polluted soil up to 200 degrees. The

In 2017, Arkil Asphalt will continue to focus on the optimi-

oil is thereby converted to polluted steams and gases and

sation of production, which will then lead to a reduction in

these are reused and burned in the subsequent heating pro-

energy consumption. The Roads2Rails and Symbiosis de-

cess. This utilises the energy of the polluted soil to operate

velopment projects will also continue and Arkil is keenly fol-

the remediation process itself. This method was used for

lowing the ongoing results.

an oil remediation in 2016, performed by Arkil Miljøteknik
under a private home in Vedbæk.

Activities and results in
Arkil's international
companies in 2016
Following the 2015 energy inspection at Arkil in Denmark,
an energy inspection was also carried out at Arkil's German
company. A large proportion of the recommendations from
the energy inspection report were implemented during
2016, including replacement of existing light sources in several offices with energy-saving LED bulbs.
In Ireland, the vehicle fleet and machines were upgraded in
2016, which has resulted in improved fuel economy and
thus also an environmental benefit.

Objectives for 2017

In 2017, Arkil Miljøteknik will stay abreast of new, effective
and sustainable remediation methods. The lessons learned
from completed remediation projects will also be evaluated
so as to identify any opportunities for optimisation, thereby
streamlining the implementation processes still further.

Goals for Arkil's
international companies
in 2017
In Arkil's companies in Ireland, Germany and Sweden there
will be a focus in 2017, as in previous years, on how to minimise environmental impact.
Among other things, Arkil's Swedish company will investigate the option of introducing new, energy-efficient heating
systems in 2017 and, if applicable, reuse the heat generated
through the company's ventilation systems.

In 2017, Arkil will continue the general activities that were
initiated in 2016, both at Group level and at Arkil Asphalt
and Arkil Miljøteknik respectively. Our aim is to ensure a
constant focus on promoting conditions and initiatives that

2016 CSR REPORT 17

EQUALITY AND
DIVERSITY

A

rkil Holding has developed an Equality and Diversity

Statement for the year 2016:

Policy, which is available at www.arkil.dk/inves-

Female employees in the Arkil Group

tor/equalopportunityanddiversitypolicy.

The company's policy is to address gender imbalance

in the

within various positions by actively encouraging qualified

Arkil Group

applicants of the underrepresented gender to apply for advertised positions and thus, over time, reducing the imbalance.
The company keeps statistics on the gender distribution
between applicants for advertised positions and gender
distribution among staff to ensure, within reasonable tolerances, that there is a correlation between the gender distribution of applicants for a business area and the gender distribution among employees, including management positions.
The company strives to invite an equal number of male and
female applicants to interviews, provided that the advertised qualification requirements have been met by applicants of both genders.
The company wishes to ensure that all employees, regardless of gender, have equal opportunities to pursue a career
in the company.

Activities and
achievements in 2016
In 2016, Arkil filled eight vacant management positions.
The positions were filled by one female candidate and
seven male candidates, following a structured process that
included Arkil's equal opportunities and diversity policy.
For the Board of Directors, a target of 40% has been set for
the proportion of elected female board members, a target
that has been achieved, as 2 out of 5 board members are
women. Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen and Birgitte Nielsen are
acting as the Chairman and Deputy Chairman respectively
of the board of Arkil Holdings.
No targets have been set for the gender composition of corporate management (currently comprising three men) or of
the other management levels within the Arkil Group.
2016 was also the year in which Arkil put part of its corporate social responsibility for integrating refugees into practice. This initiative has been a positive experience for all parties.

2017 Objectives
Arkil will continue to strive to reduce the imbalance between genders in the company's management teams in
2017 by actively encouraging qualified female candidates
to apply for upper and middle-management positions.

18 2016 CSR REPORT

145 of 1,862 (7.8%)

Female managers and middle managers
10 of 71 (14%)

Female corporate managers in
Arkil Holding A/S

0 of 3 (0%)

Female board members in
Arkil Holding A/S

2 of 5 (40%)

HUMAN RIGHTS AND
ANTI-CORRUPTION

T

he group's code of business principles states
that Arkil will support and respect internationally
recognised human rights. It also sets out that we

require all suppliers to support and respect human
rights. The consequence of failure to comply is that the
collaboration with the supplier will be stopped. The code
of

business

principles

can

be

found

at

http://www.arkil.dk/Files/Files/Forretningsprincip.pdf.

Arkil's initiatives in
relation to human rights
and anti-corruption,
including risks
For the Group, the primary risk relates to potential use of
suppliers who do not comply with national legislation
and internationally recognised standards and conventions.
We consider this risk to be limited, as we only carry out
activities in countries that support human rights and
where the risk of corruption and bribery is very low.

Activities and
achievements in 2016
The new law on tenders that took effect in 2015 gave
rise to a number of internal courses being held at Arkil.
All managing employees and employees who work on
the submission of tenders and contracts participated.
The courses were held by the Danish Construction Association and an external firm of solicitors. As in previous years, these courses covered instruction and guidelines on compliance with applicable competition legislation.
In continuation of these courses, Arkil's management
had a focus in 2016 on the follow-up of the organisation
complying with the Group's policies in the area.
Arkil has also prepared internal instructions for supplier
collaboration to safeguard e.g. anti-corruption and
transparency.

2016 CSR REPORT 19

CORPORATE
STRUCTURE

20 2016 CSR REPORT

Rear

2016 CSR REPORT 21

