CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

The Bang & Olufsen logo is a guarantee of quality – and has
been since its creation in 1925. This not only applies to Bang
& Olufsen’s quality products, but also to its strong and
enduring relationships with customers and suppliers. Similarly,
it is important for Bang & Olufsen to have committed
employees, and to demonstrate respect for the environment,
both for the company’s immediate surroundings near the
factories and a product’s footprint during its lifecycle. It has,
therefore, always been important for Bang & Olufsen to take
responsibility for sustainability across the entire business.

Human Rights
Bang & Olufsen aim, in all matters within the Group's control,
to support and respect the protection of internationally
proclaimed human rights.

In order to formalise and clarify the CSR principles to which
the company adheres, Bang & Olufsen adopted a CSR policy
in 2011.

Bang & Olufsen attaches great importance to freedom of
association	and	recognizes	the	right	to	collective	bargaining.	
We want to be an inclusive workplace where each employee
can thrive and have the ability to evolve and create a good
balance between leisure and work.

Employee Rights
Bang & Olufsen aims to show the greatest degree of social
responsibility towards our employees. We support the
abolition of child labor and forced labor, and we condemn
discrimination in employment and occupation.

CSR policy of Bang & Olufsen Group
It is important for Bang & Olufsen to integrate social, societal
and environmental considerations into our activities.
Therefore, we have been working with CSR – Corporate
Social Responsibility – within the framework of our business.
We want to create sustainable products seen in a life-cycle
perspective and thus take an active responsibility for the
society we are a part of.
The main purpose of this policy is to set the general guidelines
for the continuation of this work and to ensure that the
Group	is	conscious	of	the	choices	made	in	the	field	of	CSR	
policy.
The policy is divided into four main issues: human rights, labor
rights, environment and anticorruption. Under each item is
prepared an implementation plan that will be an organic
document that ensures continuous improvement.
The four main points is seen by Bang & Olufsen as
fundamental values. Therefore, we seek not only to ensure
compliance with ourselves, but also within our partners,
including subcontractors, why compliance with the four main
points is included in the Group's agreements with them.

Environment
At Bang & Olufsen, we think about the environmental impacts
that our production and products have on our employees,
customers and environment, from an overall perspective. This
means that when we use the word "environment" it covers
the broad disciplines of working environment, product
environment and external environment.
Bang & Olufsen produces products with a long life, which in
itself	is	beneficial	to	the	environment.	At	the	same	time	we	
are	constantly	working	to	find	comprehensive	and	lasting	
solutions to ensure that the consideration for our products'
performance, design and life are in mutual balance with our
impacts on the surroundings. When products are disposed of,
the most possible must be able to be reused and incorporated
into a new life cycle.
Anti Corruption
The group is strongly opposed to all forms of corruption,
including extortion and bribery.

Back to CONTENTS

31

Environmental conditions that have significant
environmental impact
Bang & Olufsen divides its environmental work into three
main areas: working environment, the external environment
and product environment. Bang & Olufsen is ISO 14001 and
OHSAS	18001	certified,	which	covers	the	three	main	areas.	
In accordance with the standards, Bang & Olufsen has to
define	and	risk	assess	key	working	environment	and	
environmental conditions. The company has decided to do
this in the following way:
The initial environmental survey of the external environment
was conducted according to the Key2greens scoring system1
and	is	updated	when	significant	changes	occur.	During	the	
survey, environmental parameters are scored according to the
risk of accidents, the impact on the environment/working
environment and the economy. The highest scoring
environmental impact forms the basis for the objectives,
targets and action plans.

The working environment survey is based on risk assessment
forms comprising a range of parameters such as industrial
accidents, the psychological working environment and
workplace assessment2. The salient factors are subsequently
assembled into a matrix of risk assessment used in the
procurement of new equipment or in connection with key
changes that impact the environment or working
environment.
Environmental targets in relation to key environmental
conditions
In	connection	with	the	certification	of	the	external	and	
product environments according to the ISO 14001 standard
and working environment in accordance with OHSAS 18001,
the following targets have been established across all Bang &
Olufsen’s	activities	in	Denmark	for	the	2010/11	financial	year.	
The targets are as follows in table 1.

Area

Target

Measuring point

Duration

Industrial accidents

Accident frequency should not exceed
the 2009/10 level frequency 3.7)

Frequency

3 years

Energy

5% reduction per year, total in consumption
of natural gas and electricity (0.45 kWh/
earned salary krone)

kWh/earned salary krone

3 years

Risk assessment

No difference in respect of carrying out risk
assessment

No differrence between
internal and external audit

3 years

Table 1. Targets for the 2010/11 financial year

1

Key2Green scoring system was developed by COWI. The environmental impact is scored so that the environmental impact is weighted. This is done by

assessing	every	environmental	impact	on	the	basis	of	volume/size,	distribution	scale	(global,	regional,	local)	and	effect	(reversible,	irreversible).	Each	of	the	three	
parameters is assigned a score of 1- 3 depending on the extent of the problem. When multiplying the scores for “volume”, “spread” and “effect”, the
resulting	figure	indicates	the	extent	of	the	problem.	In	total,	there	are	10	possible	levels	(1,	2,	3,	4,	6,	8,	9,	12,	18	and	27).	The	higher	the	score,	the	greater	is	
the potential problem

2

Workplace assessment (APV) is a tool to identify working environment conditions at individual workplaces. APV is also used to set targets and action plans for

working environment.

Back to CONTENTS

32

Working environment
Bang & Olufsen places great emphasis on the employees’
working environment. The aim is to create a safe and healthy
working environment with focus on both the physical and
psychological working environment. Bang & Olufsen organises
work stations to accommodate employees – not the other way
round. The working environment, therefore, forms an integral
part of the product right from the design and development
phases because the choices made by product developers often
have a major impact on the working environment during the
production phase – e.g. choice of materials, joining methods
and choice of surface treatment.
Accidents and risk assessment
Bang & Olufsen is focused on improvements within the
working environment area. The following target was set for
the 2010/11 financial year, i.e. the accident frequency should
not exceed the 2009/10 levels (frequency 3.7).
As a result of the rise in industrial accidents, the company
has intensified its focus on this. Risk assessment has been
introduced as a target where action plans have been created
to support the process.
The risk assessment action plans include ensuring that all
new employees, including colleagues who have switched
to another job within the company, receive introduction to
working environment and the environment. In addition, the
Environmental Group will be involved in the procurement
of new equipment and in respect of any major changes. A

risk assessment is carried out in this connection. Increased
registration of “near misses” is also designed to prevent
industrial accidents.
In the second half of 2010/11, a task force was set up with
the aim of focusing on the increasing number of industrial
accidents. The task force comprises employees from the
environmental department, the environmental coordinator
and environmental groups. The task force, together with the
injured person and the Environmental Group, is responsible
for identifying the underlying causes of the accident. Remedial
action is initiated based on the causes identified. Bang &
Olufsen has sought to increase awareness of the increased
number of accidents by reporting on the accidents on the
company’s intranet. Bang & Olufsen will continue to raise
awareness of this area and develop new tools and initiatives to
help support the company’s objectives. The accident analysis
has contributed to the fact that there has only been one
accident since the project’s start in December 2010.
Results
As shown in fig. 1, there were 14 industrial accidents in
2010/11. This is a significant rise on previous years, which has
meant that the accident frequency target of 3.7 has failed to
materialise. It is expected that the new initiatives with regard
to risk assessment and accident analysis will help to reduce
the number of industrial accidents for the next financial year.
Number of

Frequency /

accidents

target
6

18
16

5.4

1

5.3
5

14
4.1

3.9

12

3

3.0
8

3

6

11

4

3

2

8
1

5

2
0

09/10

0
07/08

Fig. 1:
The diagram shows the trend in the number of accidents, the
frequency. The target is measured in terms of frequency, i.e.
the number of accidents per 1 million working hours – and
independent of the number of employees.

3

1

16

08/09

Frequency
Objective

3.7

3.5

10

Blue-collar
Salaried

4

3.7

10/11

The targets were selected based on a number of parameters:
environmental survey of environment and occupational health
parameters as described in the previous section, and designated
by senior management as part of the leadership’s annual
assessment of the environment and working environment.

Environmental	groups	consist	of	one	employee	representative	and	one	management	representative,	who	cover	one	specific	area.	The	environmental	groups	

comprise both the occupational health area and the environment. Together with the management group, the environmental groups are responsible for the
psychological working environment.

Back to CONTENTS

33

The measuring point for risk assessment has been achieved
since no difference between the internal or external audit has
been identified.

exceeding one watt. Bang & Olufsen, of course, complies
with the new EU regulations and will continue to focus on
reducing its products’ standby consumption.

Product environment

Results

Bang & Olufsen considers the environment as early as
possible in the product lifecycle. Consequently, the company
has set out comprehensive environmental requirements for
its products during the product development phase. Known
as compulsory features, these environmental requirements
include, apart from the purely legislative requirements,
internal demands that extend beyond the legal requirements.

Watt
1.20
1.00
0.80

0.90

0.90

0.86
0.78

The use of compulsory features complies with EU directives
and other international legislation. In this way, Bang &
Olufsen can be confident that its products are in accordance
with local legislation in every market where Bang & Olufsen
sells products. The compulsory features also comply with
RoHS, WEEE, the Battery Directive, the packaging directive
and various labelling schemes.

0.60

Other compulsory features extend beyond legislative
requirements. This is the case, for instance, with a ban on a
number of chemical compounds such as brominated flame
retardants and requirements for the marking of plastic parts.

Fig 2:
The average standby consumption for all Bang & Olufsen TVs,
speakers and audio products sold in individual financial years.
The calculation is sales weighted and thus expresses Bang &
Olufsen's environmental impact on the market.

Bang & Olufsen ICEpower
Bang & Olufsen products primarily use energy efficient
amplifiers from Bang & Olufsen ICEpower. In conventional
amplifiers, only around 20 per cent of the input power is
converted to output power. The remaining approx. 80 per
cent is converted to heat. As a result, amplifiers are normally
equipped with large cooling plates to conduct the heat away
from the amplifier. Under normal conditions, Bang & Olufsen
ICEpower reduces power consumption by 70 per cent. In
addition to the fact that Bang & Olufsen ICEpower amplifiers
reduce power consumption when the appliance is switched
on, resource consumption is also lower because no materials
are needed for large cooling plates.
Standby consumption
Lifecycle analyses of Bang & Olufsen products show that the
greatest environmental impact derives from the customer’s
home. It was, therefore, natural for Bang & Olufsen to focus
its environmental efforts on reducing standby consumption.

0.59

0.40
0.20
0.00
06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11

The average standby consumption for the 2010/11 financial
year fell compared to the previous financial year. This is
due to the launch of new products with a low standby
consumption and to the fact that some of the products that
had a high standby consumption have been withdrawn from
the product portfolio.
During the year under review, the company continued to
monitor international environmental legislation that could
affect the company’s products and sales. Similarly, the
company keeps updated on any new requirements that
may impact on its products and will also continue to focus
on reducing energy consumption over the lifecycle of its
products – including, to an increasing extent, work on
reducing the products’ consumption when switched on.

Under new EU regulations, it is no longer permitted to import
or produce electronic devices with standby consumption

4

RoHS:	Restriction	on	use	of	certain	Hazardous	Substances,	WEEE:	Waste	of	Electrical	and	Electronic	Equipment,	the	Battery	Directive	and	the	Packaging	

Directive are all European directives concerning requirements for electric and electronic products, batteries and their packaging.

Back to CONTENTS

34

External environment
It is important to Bang & Olufsen that the pollution from the
company’s activities is limited as much as possible and that
the production does not cause annoyance to local residents.
There is, therefore, ongoing focus on new projects and
follow-up on already existing buildings and activities. The
company is in ongoing dialogue with the regulatory bodies
with a view to identifying the best solutions and thereby
limiting pollution.
Bang & Olufsen’s Mechanic Factory is environmentally
approved in accordance with the Environmental Protection
Act’s Section 5. As environmental approval was revised in
2010, it will not be revised again until 2020. In the event of
changes to processes and production layout, the basic aim
is to prevent pollution or limit any pollution to the greatest
possible extent.
The pollution potential from the company’s other factories
is so slight that the local environmental authorities have
decided that the activities do not require environmental
approval. Bang & Olufsen, however, imposes the same
requirements on these factories as apply to the Mechanic
Factory.
During the 2010/11 financial year, there were no breakdowns
and Bang & Olufsen received no complaints from neighbours
concerning the external environment.

•		The	introduction	of	procedures/inspections	for	any	leaking	
compressed air pipes
•		Shut-down	of	PCs	and	screens
•	Switching	off	lights	when	not	in	use
•		Switching	off	room	lights	during	the	summer	period	with	
plenty of daylight available
•		Switching	off	room	lights	during	breaks
•	Rolling	up	blinds	to	let	daylight	in
•	Using	stairs	instead	of	lifts
•	Gates	and	doors	to	be	closed	after	use
•		Radiators	regulated	by	thermostat	depending	on	the	
outside temperature
Knowledge sharing across Bang & Olufsen is handled by
the technical team, which ensures that the environmental
groups meet and maintain dialogue with each other across
departments. Materials/slideshows have been prepared
for all managers and their teams. This is followed up by
departmental dialogues based on the theme of "What can
we do in our department?”
Bang & Olufsen’s aim is to reduce energy consumption by
5 per cent per year starting in 2009/10. The key figure for
BeoEnergy is determined at kWh per earned salary krone.
Adjustments are made for production level, the number of
shifts, degree days etc.
Results
MWh

Heating
Electricity

40,000

30,000
16998

15906

25,000

12764

12630

21429

21279

10/11

35,000

09/10

BEOenergy
BEOenergy is an energy saving project that was initiated
because Bang & Olufsen wishes to be a green, energysaving
company with an environmental target to reduce energy
consumption by 5 per cent per year.

13044

20,000

19117

20219

18759

08/09

10,000

07/08

15,000

5,000
0
06/07

BeoEnergy groups have been established at the factories.
These comprise environmental groups and consultancy
support from the Facilities and Environmental Departments.
The groups work proactively to reduce energy consumption.
In co-operation with the Facilities and Environmental
Department, the environmental groups have defined energy
consumption and proposals have been put forward with
regard to initiatives for saving on energy consumption.
Habits and conduct in relation to energy consumption are a
particular target area. This has resulted in concrete measures
such as:

Fig. 3:
The chart shows the total energy consumption according to
energy used for heating and electricity.

Back to CONTENTS

35

As is evident from the diagram in fig. 3, energy consumption
in 2010/11 fell slightly compared to 2009/10. As the
production level was identical or even slightly higher
compared to last year, the BeoEnergy groups and the
supporting activities, coupled with the change in awareness
and habits, have helped to bring about energy savings.
Energy target
kWh

kWh / Earned salary krone

30,000,000

0.80
0.70

25,000,000

0.60
20,000,000
15,000,000
10,000,000

0.50

Electricity consumption

0.40

Heating

0.30

kWh / Earned salary krone

0.20
5,000,000

0.10
0.00

0
06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11

Fig. 4.
The graph shows heat and electricity consumption compared to the stipulated
targets for 5 per cent reduction in kWh / Earned salary krone starting in 2009/10.

Fig. 4 shows that the desired reduction target of 5 per cent
for kWh/earned salary krone has been achieved. In total,
there has been a reduction of around 10 per cent. Bang &
Olufsen expects energy consumption to fall going forward
and will, therefore, continue its work with the BEOenergy
project to achieve next year’s reduction target.
Waste
If electronic scrap is processed correctly, it is a valuable source
of recovery of raw materials. In large parts of the world,
discarded electrical and electronic products must be collected
and processed by approved waste receivers. The product is
separated into different material fractions – metal, printing
plates, plastic, glass and screen – which are then recycled for
the manufacture of new materials. Materials that cannot be
recycled are sent, if possible, for incineration. This, in turn,
generates energy.

Bang & Olufsen also considers disposal in the design of
new products. All plastic parts are labelled so that waste
receivers can identify the type of plastic. A disassembly test
demonstrates how the product will be separated when
disposed of, its material fractions and how much of the
product can be recycled. In addition, there are proposals
for design improvements that can benefit future products.
The disassembly tests show that between 75 and 86 per
cent of the material parts of a Bang & Olufsen television
can be recycled. The EU directive concerning the disposal
of electrical and electronic waste (WEEE) demands that a
minimum of 65 per cent of all collected electronics used for
entertainment must be recycled.
In partnership with the company’s waste management
contractor, Bang & Olufsen has begun to work pro-actively
on further optimising its waste sorting at the factories into
different components in order to optimise the volume of

Back to CONTENTS

36

recyclable waste rather than processing it. Fig. 5 shows that
the recycling percentage has increased over the financial year.
Bang & Olufsen intends to focus on becoming even better at
waste sorting over the next financial years.

Tons

Recycle %

2000

76

1800

74

Action across the board
Environmental certification
In 2009/10, Bang & Olufsen’s Danish activities were the
subject of a voluntary double certification of the environment
and working environment. In 2010/11, the external
certification agency, Det Norske Veritas, carried out an audit
of the environment, working and product environments. No
discrepancies were found during the certification visits, only
observations, improvement proposals and commendable
initiatives.

1600
72

1400
1200

70

1000
68

800
600

66

400

Responsible supply chain management
Bang & Olufsen is committed to ensuring that no supplier
uses child labour, forced labour or causes any avoidable
damage to the environment in connection with the
production of Bang & Olufsen’s materials. Known as
responsible supply chain management, Bang & Olufsen
began to work with this systematically six years ago.

64

200

62

0
06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11
Recycling

Recycling %

Recovery
Disposal

Fig. 5.
Composition of waste volumes divided into
recyclable, processed waste and landfill.

As part of its commitment to responsible supply chain
management, Bang & Olufsen has drawn up a Code of
Conduct which, in key areas such as the environment and
climate, human rights, employee rights and anti-corruption
sets out its values so that they are clearly communicated to
suppliers and other stakeholders. Bang & Olufsen’s Code of
Conduct is, in part, based upon the ten principles in the UN
Global Compact and in part on an interpretation of the UN’s
conventions on human rights.
All Bang & Olufsen’s direct suppliers must sign up to the
Code of Conduct and the requirements to be met by
individual suppliers. With their signature, direct suppliers
pledge to ensure that their sub-contractors comply with such
guidelines and requirements. Once a year, a risk analysis is
carried out by Bang & Olufsen’s suppliers after which special
focus is directed at suppliers with a high risk of breaching
the Code of Conduct. Such suppliers can then expect an
audit aimed at rectifying any shortcomings. One new supplier
in the high-risk group was identified during the 2010/11
financial year. Bang & Olufsen is planning an audit of this
supplier.
Bang & Olufsen acknowledges that work on responsible
supply chain management is a continuous process. The
aim, therefore, is not to use the Code of Conduct for
severing relations with suppliers should an audit reveal
critical deviations. Rather, such action serves to improve
the supplier’s environmental and social standards in a
collaborative effort between the supplier and Bang &
Olufsen. The conclusion from earlier implemented re-audits

Back to CONTENTS

37

shows improvements among suppliers within the areas
covered by Bang & Olufsen’s Code of Conduct.
Reporting
Bang & Olufsen prepares statutory annual green accounts
for the anodising plant. Anodising is the electro-chemical
treatment of aluminum, which creates a very durable surface
structure. This surface structure means that the aluminum
retains its original beautiful appearance for decades when in
ordinary use.
Bang & Olufsen has chosen to report on the company’s CO2
emissions via the Carbon Disclosure Project, which enables
investors to compare the Group’s CO2 emissions with the
figures from other companies. This year, Bang & Olufsen has
decided to publish the relevant data in the Carbon Disclosure
Project.
In addition to the green accounts, an environmental report:
“Down to the smallest detail ...” A story about environmental
awareness told through the development, production, use
and disposal of a specific product, has been produced for
a number of products and business areas. Both the green
accounts and ”Down to the smallest detail” are available
from the Environmental Manager, Rikke Højer, on +45 96 84
10 18 or mailing RIH@bang-olufsen.dk

Back to CONTENTS

38

