ENVIRONMENT

Environmental policy
Bang & Olufsen takes a holistic approach to the
environmental impact our production and our
products have on our employees, customers and
surroundings. Consequently, the word
“environment” encompasses the working
environment, the product environment as well as the
external environment.
As an environmentally responsible company, Bang &
Olufsen wishes to develop sustainable products.
Regard for our products’ useful qualities, design and
lifetime must be balanced against the impact on our
surroundings.
In particular, this means that we:
· Develop and produce products under conditions
that meet the requirements of ISO 14001 and
OHSAS 18001 standards.
· Continually prevent or improve:
				-		The	working	environment	for	the	benefit	of	our	
employees’ health and safety.
- Industrial accidents and work-related illnesses.
- Environmental impact from our activities and
products on our surroundings.
· Communicate openly about our environmental
issues.
· Maintain a high standard of information for our
employees so that our environmental work is
transparent and a natural part of our daily work
· Ensure that individuals who work for, and on behalf
of, Bang & Olufsen have the necessary knowledge
about the environment to enable them to perform
their work in a responsible manner.

Environmental issues
The Bang & Olufsen logo is a guarantee for quality.
Bang & Olufsen wants customers to buy Bang &
Olufsen products in the knowledge that we have
made all key decisions on their behalf – also in
respect of environmental issues.
Bang & Olufsen develops high quality products that
last for many years. Owing to their timeless design,
20-30 year-old Bang & Olufsen products that are in
perfect working order can still be found in many

1

homes. On average, Bang & Olufsen products have a
lifetime of 10-15 years with no deterioration in their
picture and sound quality. In order to maintain high
quality throughout a product’s lifetime, it is tested
prior to being launched in the market. Consequently,
the product can withstand cold, heat, bumps,
sunlight, dust etc. In the event that a product
develops a fault, it can, of course, be repaired.
Mechanical spare parts such as back parts and front
materials are also available should scratches or other
damage occur. The high quality and long lifetime of
our products has a positive effect on the environment.
On the supplier side, Bang & Olufsen has worked
actively with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for
the past four years. The CSR guidelines are set out in
Bang & Olufsen’s Code of Conduct to which all
suppliers must sign up. Suppliers are divided into
three risk groups where those in the high-risk group
are subject to a three-part audit. Bang & Olufsen
recognises that responsible supplier management is
an ongoing process. Consequently, the aim is not to
use the Code of Conduct to terminate a relationship
with a supplier where an audit reveals critical
deviations. Rather, the company initiates joint action
plans designed to improve the supplier’s
environmental and social standards. The
implemented re-audits show improvements at the
suppliers within the areas covered by Bang &
Olufsen’s Code of Conduct.
The result of life cycle analysis of Bang & Olufsen’s
products	shows	that	the	most	significant	
environmental impact is energy consumption in
customers’ homes. It has, therefore, been natural for
Bang & Olufsen to focus its environmental efforts on
reducing stand-by consumption since this is often
regarded	as	a	waste	of	energy.	To	a	significant	
extent, Bang & Olufsen is at the leading edge of the
latest EUP directive .
In December 2008, the EU Commission adopted the
first	implementing	measure	under	the	EUP	Directive.	
As a result, electric and electronic products must
have a standby and/or off mode function and may
not consume more than 1W in standby/off mode.
This requirement, which came into force on 7
January 2009, will be increased in 2013 to a
maximum of 0.5W.

Council Directive 2005/32/EC. EUP is an abbreviation of the directive’s English title, Energy Using Products. For the
electronics industry, this primarily relates to the reduction of the products’ energy consumption during the user phase.

Back to CONTENTS

43

Bang & Olufsen, of course, meets all current
requirements and will continue to focus on
minimising stand-by consumption.
The EU Commission has also presented a proposal
regarding the environmental requirements for TVs in
respect of maximum power consumption when
switched on. The proposal also sets out requirements
relating to power consumption during standby and
requirements for automatically switching to standby.
Although the proposal has not yet been adopted,
Bang & Olufsen has already begun to implement
these requirements in the TVs under development.
Moreover, the EU is considering the introduction of
A-G energy labelling for TVs, a system already used
for white goods. The Commission and the EU
Parliament have not yet reached agreement on the
drafting of this proposal. Bang & Olufsen is
monitoring the development of the bill concerning
energy labelling of TVs.
Over the past year, the company has monitored
international product environment legislation that
may impact on the company’s products and sales.
Internationally, the general trend is for the adoption
and implementation of European legislation –
including the WEEE2 and RoHS3 directives . The
company keeps abreast of any new requirements
that can affect its products. There are currently no
indications that new requirements will impact on the
annual accounts.
The revised battery directive4 came into force on 26
September 2008 and contains a requirement
regarding the content of materials in batteries
including lead, cadmium and mercury as well as their
labelling. There is also a requirement that products
containing batteries should be designed so that the
batteries are easy to remove by consumers or waste
processors.

2

The most important issue for the company in
connection with the implementation of the revised
battery directive is manufacturer responsibility and
the implementation of the WEEE directive.
Manufacturers of batteries or products that contain
batteries are obliged to collect, handle and ensure
the utilisation of batteries. As the majority of Bang &
Olufsen’s products contain batteries, the company is
affected by these requirements. Bang & Olufsen
meets these obligations by participating in collective
schemes around Europe. Enrolment in such schemes
takes place on an ongoing basis as the European
countries implement the battery directive.
In December 2006, the EU Commission adopted the
new chemical regulation REACH5. The part of REACH
that deals with materials and preparations has no
direct bearing on Bang & Olufsen as the company
does not import materials from non-European
countries. However, based on REACH, Bang &
Olufsen has initiated an internal chemical reduction
programme under which the purchase and use of
CMR materials class 1 and 2 are prohibited in order
to create a better working environment for its
employees.
REACH also covers chemicals in products and the
import of such products – although not in the form
of a ban but an obligation to inform consumers. In
partnership with the Environmental Protection
Agency and DHI6, Bang & Olufsen participated in the
pre-project: The Consequences of REACH for
electronic companies – Requirements for
Downstream Use of Preparations and Production of
Chemicals”. As a result, Bang & Olufsen has, with
regard to chemicals in products, decided that its
contracts must stipulate that suppliers must not sell
products to the company that contain materials that
appear on the list of Substances of Very High
Concern (SVHC). This list has been prepared by the
European Chemicals Agency on behalf of the

Council Directive 2002/96/EC. WEEE is an abbreviation of the directive’s English title Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment. The directive determines manufacturer responsibility for the collection and reprocessing of end of life
electronic products.

3

Council Directive 2002/95/EC. RoHS is an abbreviation of the directive’s English title Restriction of use of certain Hazardous
Substances. For the electronics industry, this primarily relates to the switch to lead-free soldering.

4

Council Directive 2006/66/EC on batteries and accumulators.

5

Council Directive no. 1907 of 18 December, 2006. REACH is an abbreviation of the directive’s English title: Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation of Chemicals.

6

CMR: Carciogenic, Mutagenic or toxic Reproduction.

7

DHI – Institute for Water and Environment – works to advance technological development and competence within the
fields of water, environment and health.

44

Back to CONTENTS

European Commission. The SVHC list is continually
updated and Bang & Olufsen is currently identifying
whether there is a need for dispensations in respect
of, for instance, the company’s cables.
The immediate assessment is that REACH currently
does not impact on Bang & Olufsen. However, as the
list of SVHC is continually updated, developments
will be monitored to ascertain whether there are
materials that are essential to Bang & Olufsen and its
products.
There are no external environmental issues that have,
or	could	have,	a	significant	impact	on	Bang	&	
Olufsen’s	financial	position.	Bang	&	Olufsen’s	
Mechanics Factory is approved in accordance with
the Danish Environmental Protection Act’s section 5.
With regard to changes to processes and production
layout, the objective is to eliminate or limit pollution
whenever possible. The company maintains a regular
dialogue with the authorities to create the best
solutions and minimise pollution, e.g. by using
cleaner technology (BAT8).
If processed correctly, electronic scrap is a valuable
source for recovering raw materials. In large parts of
the world, discarded electric and electronic products
are collected and processed at approved waste
processors where they are separated into different
material fractions – metal, printed circuit boards,
plastic, glass and screens. The separation is often
carried out by hand. Alternatively, shredders are used
to automatically sort the metal and plastic fractions
for subsequent use for the production of new raw
materials. Copper and other metals from printed
circuit boards are also recycled. Materials that cannot
be recycled are sent for incineration which generates
energy. Otherwise they are despatched as waste.
Future disposal is also considered when Bang &
Olufsen designs new products. All plastic parts are

8

labelled so that waste processors can identify the
type of plastic. Bang & Olufsen carries out
disassembly tests to demonstrate how products are
to be separated at the time of disposal, what
material fractions the product consists of and what
proportion of the product can be recycled. In
addition, proposals for manufacturing improvements
are	put	forward	which	benefit	future	products.	Such	
disassembly tests show that over 65 per cent of
material components in Bang & Olufsen’s TVs can be
recycled. The EU directive concerning the disposal of
electric and electronic waste (WEEE) states that a
minimum of 65 per cent of all collected electronics
for entertainment purposes must be recycled – which
Bang & Olufsen naturally complies with.
Bang & Olufsen prepares annual statutory green
accounts for its anodising plant. Anodising is an
electro-chemical treatment of aluminium which
results in a highly durable surface structure. This
surface structure means that with ordinary use, the
aluminium element will retain its original attractive
appearance for many years.
In addition to the green accounts, the company
prepares an annual, voluntary environmental review
which details the environmental aspects of
production at Bang & Olufsen’s factories as well as
the company’s working environment conditions.
For a number of products and business areas, an
environmental review ”To the last detail, an account
of environmental awareness told through the
development, production, use and disposal of a
specific	product”	has	been	prepared.	
”To the last detail” and the environmental review can
be downloaded at www.bang-olufsen.com. The
green accounts are available from the Environment
Department on +45 96 84 10 18.

BAT is an environmental term ”Best Available Technology” (best accessible – or cleaner technology).

Back to CONTENTS

45

