BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
2015/2016

LETTER FROM MANAGEMENT
In Bang & Olufsen, we value CSR as a fundamental element and a key driver for achieving
our results in a sustainable way. In 2015/16 our
CSR areas included human rights, employee
rights, anti-corruption, environment and climate.

We want to create a corporate culture that
values CSR by pursuing initiatives in the areas
we have included in our CSR work and hereby
contributing to building a more sustainable
world, and protecting both employee and human rights.

We believe in collaborating with our external stakeholders to help maintaining focus
on these important CSR areas in the daily
business. Our focus is therefore embedded
throughout the organisation and as an overall
umbrella. We have in 2015/16 instituted the
Anti-Corruption policy and Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics for which we measure ourselves and our external partners against.

Our values are also the cornerstones in our
daily business, fuelling both decisions and
practices when creating and selling our unique
products and when collaborating with stakeholders. In the coming years, CSR is becoming
even more important as our business expands
to new corners of the world and thereby the
potential of forming new partnerships and relationships will grow.

3

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

4

CONTENTS
Letter from management 	

3

Contents
- About this report	

5

Introduction
- About Bang & Olufsen	

7

CSR in Bang & Olufsen	

8

- CSR policy	

8

CSR activities in 2015/16	

11

- Human rights labour	

12

- Environment and climate	

16

- Anti-corruption	

18

Planned CSR activities in 2016/17		

20

ABOUT THIS REPORT
This report provides a status on Bang & Olufsen’s work within the area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for the financial year of 2015/2016 and thereby fulfils the reporting requirements
set out in section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven). It is our intention
that the report will provide insight and understanding of the scope of our CSR work, and how these
activities are an integrated part of the day-to-day business of our company.

5

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

6

ABOUT BANG & OLUFSEN
The Bang & Olufsen Group develops high-quality, innovative audio and visual solutions for its
customers by striving for the perfect, uncompromising combination of iconic craftsmanship and
design, beautiful sound and seamless integration.
Bang & Olufsen was founded in Struer, Denmark, in 1925 by Peter Bang and Svend Olufsen, two
innovative, young engineers devoted to high quality audio reproduction. Since then, the brand
has become an icon of performance and design excellence through its longstanding craftsmanship tradition and the strong commitment to high-tech research and development.
Still at the forefront of domestic technology, our current product range epitomises
seamless media experiences in the home
and on the move.
At the end of the financial year,
Bang & Olufsen employed 1,734 people
and our products are currently sold in
more than 70 countries across the world.
Bang & Olufsen’s shares are listed on
NASDAQ Copenhagen

CORE COMPETENCIES
In Bang & Olufsen, we recognise the importance of identifying and utilising our own
expertise and we have over the years built
up a number of areas of expertise through
experience, practice, development and
cooperation with external partners. Some
of these areas have been identified as our
core areas of expertise, such as sound and
acoustics, design, and craftsmanship, as
well as system integration.

BUSINESS AREAS
Bang & Olufsen operates within two business segments; Bang & Olufsen and B&O PLAY, complemented by brand licensing partnerships.
The Bang & Olufsen business comprises audio and video products sold exclusively in more than
600 Bang & Olufsen stores around the world. The B&O PLAY brand delivers headphones and
portable audio systems distributed through Bang & Olufsen stores and third party retailers as
well as online.

7

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

CSR IN BANG & OLUFSEN
In Bang & Olufsen we value CSR as a fundamental element and a key driver for achieving results
in a sustainable way. As the business expands to new corners of the world, and thereby creating
new partnerships, CSR is becoming even more important.
We recognise the UN and ILO declarations regarding human rights, labour rights, environment
and anti-corruption. Consequently, we have chosen to structure our CSR effort, including the
CSR policy, in accordance with the UN Global Compact guidelines.
We believe in a result oriented and pragmatic CSR approach, and consequently, we work with
CSR systematically and within the framework of the Danish Financial Act section 99 on CSR. Our
CSR policy covers the common CSR policy areas according to the above-mentioned international standards. The CSR policy is relatively fixed from year to year and is presented in the section
‘Bang & Olufsen’s CSR Policy’. The policy is supported by our Anti-Corruption policy and Supplier
Code of Conduct, which contain Bang & Olufsen’s CSR requirements to our suppliers as well as
guidelines to our employees. External audits of the suppliers, as well as their sub-suppliers, are
carried out if there is a concrete suspicion of breach of these policies.
For this report, we have produced a new CSR framework, which is illustrated in figure 1. The
framework builds on the above-mentioned policies, making sure that we define the right objectives in order to focus on our risk areas. The framework first presents ‘Focus and risks’ within the
policy areas that are introduced to help our surroundings understand the relevance to Bang &
Olufsen’s business activities. Then, a presentation of the actions within the individual policy areas
are disclosed, and finally, the results of the targets are presented. The framework displays our dynamic CSR approach, because the risks and focus areas can be revised and the actions amended
accordingly, when we assess the achieved results.

Bang & Olufsen
CSR Policy

Policy

CSR activities in
Bang & Olufsen
in 2015/2016

Focus
and risks

Results

Actions

Figure 1: The CSR framework in Bang & Olufsen. The framework includes a relatively static policy section whereas
the CSR activities are dynamic and agreed yearly in the CSR Steering Committee. The committee includes the
CFO, Global General Counsel, VP Operations, Senior Director Global Quality, and VP HR.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

8

BANG & OLUFSEN’S CSR POLICY
Bang & Olufsen’s CSR policy states the guidelines for the Corporate Social Responsibility activities within the framework of the Bang & Olufsen Group.

Policy

Focus
and risks

Results

Actions

Figure 2: Bang & Olufsen’s CSR policy in the Bang & Olufsen CSR framework. Bang & Olufsen’s CSR policy is coherent with international CSR standards.

HUMAN RIGHTS
Bang & Olufsen commits, in all matters within the Group’s control, to supporting and respecting
the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.

EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
Bang & Olufsen commits to showing the greatest degree of social responsibility towards our employees. Bang & Olufsen supports the abolition of child labour and forced labour, and condemns
discrimination in employment and occupation.
Bang & Olufsen attaches great importance to freedom of association and recognises the right to
collective bargaining.
Bang & Olufsen commits to being a tolerant workplace where each employee thrives and has the
possibility to develop and create a good work-life balance.

ANTI-CORRUPTION
Bang & Olufsen strongly disassociates itself from all kinds of corruption, including extortion and
bribery. We are committed to conducting our business operations around the world in an honest,
fair, transparent and ethical manner.

9

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Reports of breaches to the policy will be investigated thoroughly and appropriate actions will be
taken based on such investigation.
Bang & Olufsen is subject to serious criminal and civil penalties for breaches of applicable anti-corruption laws. Consequently, any employee who breaches the Anti-Corruption policy may
be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties, including imprisonment and very substantial fines,
which will not be reimbursed by Bang & Olufsen. In addition, any employee who breaches the
policy may be subject to disciplinary action by Bang & Olufsen, up to and including termination
of their contract of employment.

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE
Bang & Olufsen has an integrated thinking with regard to the environmental consequences that
our production and products have on our employees, customers and the environment. This
means that we include the aspects of environment, working environment and product environment in the production and in the products. We use the word “environment” broadly to cover the
areas of work environment, product environment and external environment, and these areas are
all integrated in the production.
As a responsible company, Bang & Olufsen commits to creating sustainable products. The considerations involved in the operation, design, and longevity of our products must be in mutual
balance with the environmental impact of production. Bang & Olufsen complies with existing
legislation in the countries where we produce and sell our products.
More specifically, we aim to focus on the areas where the right balance between effort and impact can be achieved:
	
•	
improve the work environment and the health and safety conditions of our 		
		employees
	
•	
Prevent work related illnesses and/or injuries
	
•	
Improve and prevent negative environmental impact from our production 		
		
and products, including reduction of climate impact.
	
•	
Prevent negative environmental and climate impact from use of products 		
		
as well as maintain high focus on developing sustainable products.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

10

CSR ACTIVITIES IN BANG & OLUFSEN IN 2015/16
This section presents the CSR activities in Bang & Olufsen of the financial year 2015/2016. The
sections following the table contain further elaborations.

POLICY
AREA
Human
rights
labour

Environment

TOPIC

OBJECTIVES

ACTUAL RESULTS

Ensure compliance of our
Collective
suppliers obtained by audits
agreement
for employees through risk-assessment of
(Suppliers and suppliers.
contractors

Risk-assessment conducted of twelve suppliers. Based on satisfactory self-assessments
ten suppliers required no further action, and
two were subject to further assessment due to
overtime.

Conflict
minerals

Review and maintain processes
and supplier agreements to
avoid conflict minerals in any
product. Conflict minerals refer
to tantalum, tungsten, tin, and
gold originated in the Democratic Republic of Congo and
its adjoining countries.

During 2015/2016, different standard procedures have been tested and evaluated to
minimise risks and avoid conflict minerals in
products.

Accident and
severity

Accident frequency must not
exceed 2 (number of accidents
per 1 million working hours).

The actual result is 2.6

The level of severity in accidents must not exceed
0.095. (the number of hours
of absence per 1,000 working
hours).

Safety walks in Danish and Czech production
facilities initiated.

The actual result is 0.214

Tool to visualise accidents and near misses
(safety cross) in Czech facility initiated
Actions implemented for focus areas in the environmental groups (cutting accidents, heavy
lift, focus on own risk, ergonomic)
Care conversation together with injured initiated to avoid long-term sickness absence.

Energy consumption in
facilities

Energy reduction of least
<0.34 kWh/total salary expense
(The number of kWh adjusted
for degree days/salary).

The actual result is 0.37
LED lights purchased in the Danish production
facility
Energy inspection conducted (external) in
Danish facility - provides energy saving catalogue
Low energy solutions at renewals.

Anticorruption

Policy review

Review policies and update to
reflect actual business set-up.

In 2016, a thorough review of all policies was
conducted a new Anti-Corruption policy was
adopted which is in full compliance with the
UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.

Anti-corruption training

Conduct training for white collars in Procurement and Sales.

Based on the newly adopted Anti-Corruption
policy and Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, an on-line training program will be set up
for all employees with commercial responsibility to receive training in anti-corruption laws
and procedures.

11

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR
In Bang & Olufsen we are committed to providing safe and healthy working conditions for the
more than 1700 employees around the world. We respect internationally recognised labour rights
and we follow national requirements for labour practices. In the following section the activities
for 2015/2016 in Bang & Olufsen within the human rights policy area will be presented.

FOCUS AND RISKS:
Child labour and forced labour

Bang & Olufsen’s business activities generate a demand for products and services from global
suppliers. We acknowledge the responsibility for human rights in the business activities that we
generate both locally and globally, and we are committed to avoid any use of child labour and
forced labour in our supply chains.
Conflict Minerals

Conflict minerals refer to tantalum, tungsten, tin, and gold originated in the Democratic Republic
of Congo and its adjoining countries. Tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are widely used in electronic equipment due to the excellent applications, however there are concerns that the conflict
minerals fund armed forces, and cause infringement of human rights in the course of mineral
excavation, such as forced labour and abuse of women and children. We are fully aware that the
mining and processing of minerals can help developing more responsible supply chains for these
minerals.

Policy area:
Human rights
labour

Focus and risks:

•	 Child labour and
	 forced labour
• 	Conflict minerals

Results:

	

Actions:

• Two suppliers were subject 	
	 to further assessment due to 	
	overtime.
•	 Standard procedures tested 	
	 and evaluated, no action

• Risk assessment and audits
•	Conflict minerals management

Figure 3: The activities in the human rights policy area are summarised in the figure above.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

12

ACTIONS:
	
Risk assessments and audits

In the financial year 2015/16, Bang & Olufsen has conducted supplier assessments and in addition, suppliers have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct. Based on an updated risk assessment
of our supply base, and the risk of business and country, actions were taken accordingly.
Conflict minerals management

Bang & Olufsen do not source tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold directly from smelters and hence
we have assessed the risks of sourcing conflict minerals at our particular place in the global mineral supply chains. During 2015/16 we have tested and evaluated different standard procedures
to minimise risks and avoid conflict minerals in our products.

RESULTS:
During our risk assessment, we selected twelve suppliers to perform self-assessments. Ten suppliers required no further action, and two were subject to further assessment due to overtime.
However, since the employees are working overtime on a voluntary basis, it is compliant with local legislation, and the employees receive their overtime payment at premium rates, we can only
make an effort to influence the suppliers in a positive direction.
Regarding conflict minerals, we have identified the responsibilities and risks in the supply chain
and started to manage conflict minerals in supplier contracts.

Policy area:
Working
environment

Focus and risks:

Accidents and severity

Results:

Actions:

• Visualisation tool for accidents and 		
	 near misses in Czech facility initiated
•	 Actions implemented for focus areas 	
	 in the environmental groups
•	 Care conversation implemented

•	 Safety walk
•	 Safety cross
•	 Targeted safety in different areas
•	 Care conversation

Figure 4: Bang & Olufsen’s activities related to the work environment policy area is summarised in the table above.

13

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

WORKING ENVIRONMENT
The following section describes the activities within our working environment policy area.

FOCUS AND RISKS:
Reduction of accident and severity

Being a manufacturer of consumer electronics including a production site and employee offices, Bang & Olufsen strives to avoid that our employees are exposed to risks, which may cause
accidents at work. In Bang & Olufsen we want to foster a culture where employees each day
can come home safe to their families and return to work the next day. Safety has a high priority
across the organisation. We want to reduce the number of injuries, and thereby obtain a reduction of absence days.

ACTIONS:
Safety walk

A safety walk is a recurring activity to reduce accidents, and in the financial year 2015/2016, safety walks took place both in our Danish production facility, and in our Czech production facility.
The manager tours the production to engage in a dialogue with employees regarding safety and
health. The intention is to focus on right and wrong conduct, and to provide clear leadership and
management focus and commitment towards health and safety issues.
Safety Cross

We have initiated a tool to visualise accidents and near misses in our Czech production on a daily
operational level, during production meetings.
Targeted Safety in different areas

During the financial year 2015/2016 Bang & Olufsen has assessed area-specific safety risks and
implemented actions to reduce area-specific accidents within the different environmental area
groups. Employees in different business areas face different safety risks, e.g. a production worker
is facing other types of risks than an office assistant.
Care conversation

To avoid long-term sickness absence, we contact our employees to schedule a care conversation.
This also encourages the employee to return to work and to make the employee feel needed and
cared for. If the employee can maintain a protected job for a period until he or she is ready to
return to the original job, a protected job position will be available for the injured employee.

RESULTS
During the financial year 2015/16, Bang & Olufsen had seven cases of work related injuries (two in
the Czech Republic and five in Denmark), which resulted in absence. We did not reach the target,
but the frequency has decreased 24 per cent and the severity 0.2 compared to 2014/15
The number of injuries with absence, split in white-collar and blue-collar workers, is outlined in
the graph below (see figure 5). The graph also shows the frequency (number of accidents per 1
million working hours) and the severity (number of hours of absence per 1,000 working hours) of
the industrial injuries.
Accidents and frequency 2015/2016

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

14

Frequency
Severity

TARGET

ACTUAL

<2

2.6

<0.095

0.214

Accidents and frequency 2015/2016
0,800

12
0,717

0,700

10
0,600

0,500
0,461
6

0,400

0,300
4

3,9

3,5

3,6

0,214
2,6

0,214

0,200

2,0

2

0,100

0,086
0

0,000
2011/12

2012/13
Blue-collar worker

2013/14
White-collar worker

2014/15
Frequency

2015/16
Severity (RHS)

Figure 5: The graph shows the development in the number of accidents and the frequency (number of accidents
per 1 million working hours) and the severity (number of hours of absence per 1,000 working hours).

15

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Severity

Number of accidents

8

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE
The following section describes the activities in the Environment and Climate policy area.

Policy area:
Environment
and climate

Focus and risks:

Energy consumption
in facilities

Results:

Actions:

•	 LED lights purchased in DK produc	
	 tion facility
•	 Energy savings catalogue received
•	 Focus on low energy solutions

• LED
• Energy inspection
• Maintenance

Figure 6: The activities within the environment and climate policy area are summarised in the figure above.

FOCUS AND RISKS:
Energy consumption in facilities

Bang & Olufsen’s business activities depend on energy in our production, and it is our largest environment impact contributor. We strive to run a sustainable production where energy reduction
in our facilities is an important target.

ACTIONS:
LED

To reduce energy consumption in the production facilities we have replaced outdated light bulbs
with LED lighting during the financial year 2015/2016.
Energy inspection

A consultant has carried out an energy inspection, and consequently, an energy savings catalogue will be conducted for the financial year 2016/17.
Maintenance

When roof, pumps and other things have to be changed, we strive to replace with low energy
solutions.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

16

RESULTS:
We did not reach the target for 2015/2016. At present, Bang & Olufsen’s spatial footprint in our
headquarters in Struer exceeds the space for the number of employee, which is causing our heating demands to be high.

TARGET

ACTUAL

<0.34

0.37

Energy
Consumption
Note: KPI (kWh/earned wages)

The energy consumption has declined by 7.5 per cent during the last five years, corresponding to
8.6 per cent CO2 reduction of (853 tonnes CO2).

35.000

0,41
0,40

0,40
0,39

MWh

25.000
20.000

0,38
0,37

0,37

15.000
0,34

10.000

0,37
0,36
0,35

0,35

0,34
0,33

5.000

Key Performance Indicator

30.000

0,32

0

0,31
2011/12

2012/13

Heating (MWH)

2013/14

2014/15

Electricity (MWH)

2015/16
KPI

Figure 7: Total energy consumption in MWh split by electricity and heat and KPI (kWh/earned wages)

17

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

ANTI-CORRUPTION
The following section describes the activities in the anti-corruption policy area.

Policy area:

Anti-corruption

Focus and risks:

•	 Policy review
•	Training

Actions:

•	Review and update policy 	
	 to reflect actual business 	
	set-up
•	Conduct training for white 	
	 collars in Procurement and 	
	Sales

Results:

•	 Adoption of anti-corruption policy
•	 Set up of training

Figure 8: The 2015/2016 CSR activities in the anti-corruption policy area are summarised in the figure above.

FOCUS AND RISKS
Bribery and corruption is a major global issue, which causes damage to societies and individuals
worldwide. Bang & Olufsen, as with every other commercial organisation, faces the risk of bribery
and corruption when conducting business.
In Bang & Olufsen, we are committed to conducting all of our business operations around the
world in an honest, fair, transparent and ethical manner. Our policy is to comply with all applicable anti-corruption laws and not to engage in any corrupt activity. We do not accept any kind of
corruption and/or bribery in or in connection with our business activities.
At Bang & Olufsen we do not tolerate the acceptance, offering, promising or paying of bribes
of any kind. We may only give or accept gifts, meals or other things of value if these are within
a reasonable level and have a specific and legitimate business purpose in accordance with our
Anti-Corruption policy.
Furthermore, we are committed to conducting our business activities with the highest standards
of ethics and professionalism. We believe that acting responsibly and fairly are important factors
in achieving long-term business success, and always maintain the highest standards of integrity,
safety and fairness.
In Bang & Olufsen we expect our employees to adhere to core values such as integrity, fairness
and honesty. Safeguarding the reputation of Bang & Olufsen and complying with governmental
laws or regulations, as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics is the responsibility of
every employee and director.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

18

Our newly adopted internal policies are designed to help employees resolve day-to-day ethical
dilemmas, such as situations involving anti-corruption, confidentiality, the misuse of company
assets for personal advantage and the rules regarding donations and gifts.
To ensure compliance with company policies, we have established a whistleblower system, which
encourages and enables our staff members to report immediately any questionable actions or
activities that may involve criminal conduct or violations of our company policies and guidelines,
either through internal channels or through the Bang & Olufsen whistleblower hotline.
The whistleblower hotline system is confidential and employees can choose to remain anonymous when reporting incidents through the hotline. The hotline is managed by an independent
third party to ensure the highest level of security and confidentiality.

ACTIONS:
Policy review

In 2015/2016 we have conducted a thorough review of all of our policies and have decided to
adopt a new anti-corruption policy which is in full compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Anti-corruption training

Based on the newly adopted Anti-Corruption policy and Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics,
an on-line training programme will be set up for all employees with commercial responsibility to
receive training in anti-corruption laws and procedures.

RESULTS:
The review of policies revealed the need for an overall code of business conduct and ethics covering ethical dilemmas, such as situations involving confidentiality, the misuse of company assets
for personal advantage and the rules regarding donations and gifts, which was also adopted by
the Board of Directors in 2015/16.
The training programme on anti-corruption has been set up and will be conducted in the autumn
2016. The results from the training are expected to be finalised before end of 2016.

19

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

PLANNED CSR ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES IN
2016/17
Bang & Olufsen’s CSR activities and target for the 2016/17 financial year are summarised in the
table below.

CSR ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES FOR 2016/17
POLICY
AREA

TOPIC

OBJECTIVE

Code of conduct

Collective agreement for
employees (Suppliers
and contractors)

Risk-assessment of supplier base to identify audit
needs. Conduct CSR audits and follow-up accordingly.

Employee health and life
balance

Reduce number of long-term sickness cases (full
and part time) caused by psychological work environment.

Zero accidents

Accident frequency:
5% reduction compared to 2015/16
Accident severity:
5% reduction compared to 2015/16.

Energy savings in
facilities

Energy optimisation projects with 59 tonnes CO2
reduction equivalent to 204.684 kWh.
Measured on project level (improvement).

Environment

Anti-corruption Set up compliance program for commercial
partners and agents

The overall objective is that all retail partners and
other agents certifies compliance with newly established Anti-Corruption policy.
By the end of 2016/17, the target is to have 70% of
the retail partners and other agents certified.

Anti-corruption e-learning and
training programme

Establish online training program for all employees
with commercial responsibility. Ensure and track
that all such employees conduct the training as
planned.

IIn 2016/17 we will continue our CSR effort to improve the working environment and reduce the
environmental impact of our activities. Independent supplier audits will continue with re-audits of
the suppliers where deviations have been discovered in relation to the Supplier Code of Conduct
policy area. A new focus area under this policy area is employee health and life balance. We have a
holistic approach to our employees, and we believe that a good health, both mental and physical,
contributes to performing the utmost at work. We care for our employees, and we want them to
have a sound health and life balance. In the anti-corruption policy area we will set up a compliance
programme for our retail partners and other agents, in order to ensure that they comply with the
new policies.
Running a responsible business is a work in progress. We have achieved most of our objectives set
for this financial year, and naturally, we strive to obtain all of them, while setting new and ambitious objectives, in order to constantly improve our CSR effort. We acknowledge that there are
challenges when conducting business on the global scene e.g. foreign labour outside Denmark
working overtime. We do not support exploitation in our company or in our supply chain, however, when being compliant with local legislation, we can only make an effort to influence our suppliers in a positive direction.
As the global scene changes rapidly, we have to be able to adapt accordingly, but at the same
time keep focus on our responsibility to preserve and care for people and the environment.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

20

