Selected announcements in 2010

Corporate social responsibilityBankNordik has always been strongly anchored inthe Faroese community throughout its more than 100years long history. It has been and still is a naturalpart of the Group’s business to support local developmentin the Faroe Islands, and it is the Group’s firmdetermination to export this support to the local arrearsof its new markets in Denmark, Greenland andIceland.

Annual Report 2010

BankNordik’s support of local development has not
been explicitly codified in a corporate social responsibility policy, but both the board of directors as well as
the executive board have a diligent focus on the interaction between the Group’s primary interested parties, namely its shareholders and customers, its management and employees and the local areas in which
the Group’s branches and activities are situated.
For the Group such focus is a matter of being an active
partner in the local and regional associations and upcoming businesses and the sporting and cultural life
in the towns and areas in which the Group’s branches
and activities are situated. The Group does this via
its Faroese seed capital company Birting, founded
in 2010, and numerous entrepreneurs, cultural and
sport sponsorships.
There are a range of specific activities through which
BankNordik has sponsored community initiatives. For
instance through a spelling competition to improve
childrens’ spelling capabilities and several sports
sponsorship agreements have been made with particularly talented individuals. Yet, BankNordik has
also prioritized to support sports clubs, which have a
broader appeal, ranging from young children to senior
citizens.
In order to encourage entrepreneurship in its early
stages, a three year sponsorship contract has been
signed with the Faroese Entrepreneurship House. This
organization offers free guidance, expert advice and
support to entrepreneurs who have an ambition to
grow or expand internationally. In addition, the Group
has supported the homeless appeal by providing funding for a new shelter as well as support for the charity
Save the Children.

Management’s Report

Page 57

