Corporate social
responsibility
With more than 600 employees on 26 locations in four

sporting and cultural life in communities in which the

countries and a variety of financial services and loan

Group’s branches and activities are situated.

engagements, the BankNordik Group plays an important role to many stakeholders. The Management of

BankNordik has always been strongly anchored in the

the Group fully acknowledges the accompanying re-

Faroese community throughout its more than 100-

sponsibility, and is constantly focusing on conducting

year history, and it is a natural part of the Group’s

the Company’s business activities in accordance to its

business to support local development in the Faroe

corporate social responsibility towards customers,

Islands. With the expansion of operations in Denmark

employees, investors, business partners and the so-

in 2011, BankNordik has become even more focused

cieties it operates in.

on supporting local events in the communities in
which we operate. Therefore, it is the Group’s firm de-

Leading by values

termination to expand this concept of support to the

The Group’s CSR initiatives have not yet been formal-

Greenland and Iceland.

local communities to its new markets in Denmark,

ised in a Corporate Social Responsibility policy, The
strategic foundation for the BankNordik Group’s busi-

Sports and cultural activities

ness and CSR activities is the Group’s vision to be the

During the past year, BankNordik has sponsored

best to create financial partnerships, it’s mission to

community initiatives through a range of sports and

make it financially possible for its customers to utilize

cultural activities. In recognition of sports clubs be-

their full potential and its three core values: Proac-

ing vital for community cohesion, BankNordik has

tive, competent and committed, and the Group aims

chosen to support a wide range of local sports initia-

to act as a responsible party towards all stakeholders

tives. These range from volleyball, handball and foot-

in accordance to this.

ball to swimming, gymnastics, cycling and running.
In determining which areas to support, BankNordik

In recent years, the BankNordik Group has mainly fo-

have prioritized supporting sports clubs which have a

cused on two key areas in its CSR activities; support

broad appeal, ranging from young children to senior

of local community activities and employee care.

citizens.

Support of local community
activities

Business entrepreneurship

Active local partnerships

with the Faroese Entrepreneurship House in 2010.

The Group focuses on being an active partner in lo-

This organisation offers free guidance, expert advice

cal and regional associations, upcoming businesses,

and support to entrepreneurs who have an ambition

Annual Report 2011

In order to encourage entrepreneurship in its early
stages, a three-year sponsorship contract was signed

to grow or expand internationally. BankNordik is

are integrated. Initiatives are monitored and meas-

keen to support various initiatives aimed at improv-

ured on a regular basis in order to provide the man-

ing business conditions and business competencies

agement with information on how employees thrive.

within a range of industries. Such initiatives include

The survey is also used to plan corrective measures in

supporting conferences and seminars.

case developments do not match the desired results.

Employee care

Our goal is to maintain and improve the satisfaction

BankNordik’s core values play a large role in the HR

thrive, to be proactive and committed in order that

strategy and are practiced on a day-to-day basis by

they can maintain and improve a positive customer

the Group when recruiting, developing, retaining and

relations. In the efforts to support employee satisfac-

phasing out employees.

tion, the Bank arranges employee days, where the

values amongst our staff. We want our employees to

agenda typically spans activities of both a professionA healthy workplace

al and a social nature.

In 2011, the Group conducted a workplace assessment survey for all banking units. The results will be
analysed in the spring of 2012, after which the focal
areas for 2012 will be determined for the bank in general and for the individual units. It is of great importance that the working environment is aligned with
individual employee needs for general safety, spacing,
lighting, level of noise, ergonomic considerations and
complies with corresponding regulations.
Flexibility for senior employees
In 2012, the Bank aims to review and implement a
new, updated senior policy in order to give the Bank’s
senior employees greater working flexibility during
their final years on the labour market in preparation
for life as a pensioner.
Focus on employee satisfaction
The Group focuses on organizing events that enhance
employee motivation and engages them in a meaningful way. Every year, except 2011, the Group conducts
an employee satisfaction survey in which the values

Management’s report

Page 61

