CSR report
2011

Content

1. Bavarian Nordic and corporate social responsibility
2. Bavarian Nordic – in brief
3. Policies
4. Products
5. Environment
6. Employees
7. Suppliers
8. Business ethics
9. Independent auditor’s review report 
10. Key figures and targets
11. CSR elements 
12. GRI indicators
13. Reporting principles

3
5
6
7
8
9
11
12
13
14
19
20
22

CSR report 2011 	 3

		

1. Bavarian Nordic and
corporate social responsibility
At Bavarian Nordic, we began
a targeted effort to systematise our work with corporate
social responsibility (CSR) in
2009. This is our third CSR
report.

We have defined our work with social
responsibility on the basis of a number of
stakeholder groups and will continue to
concentrate on the environment, our employees and our suppliers, as this is what
is most relevant to our business. This year,
we have also expanded the report to
include business ethics, and have made
the description of our products a separate
area of focus. As a result, we now have
five focus areas, all wholly or partly relat-

ed to the three main elements of our CSR
work: people (social relationships), planet
(the environment) and profit (finances),
as shown in Figure 1. The figure also
shows how our policies and other specific
initiatives cover the three main elements;
this is explained in greater detail below,
in section 11 of the report.
In addition to a general CSR policy, we
have policies within the areas we believe

Figure 1. Bavarian Nordic's
corporate social responsibility
model

Employees

Products

People
•	 Health and safety
policy

•	 Code of Ethics
and Business
Conduct
•	 General
CSR policy

Business
ethics

Profit

Planet
•	 Environmental
policy

Suppliers

Environment

	 4	 CSR report 2011

are essential to our work. These policies
are a natural extension of the various objectives we work towards as a company,
and their purpose is to create commercial
value for the Company. We do not as yet
have an actual suppliers policy, but have
instead incorporated these elements into
our general CSR policy.
We also have a number of other elements
to support the Company's CSR work. A
general overview over the most important of these elements appears below,
at the end of this report, in the section
entitled 'CSR elements'.
Reporting principles
This CSR report was prepared with inspiration from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a recognised framework for
sustainability reporting. The GRI structure
includes principles and indicators we use
to measure and explain the Company’s
financial, environmental and social
performance. We selected the areas to be
reported based on a principle of materiality: we endeavoured to include the most
important ways in which the Company
has an either direct or indirect impact
upon the world around it. Our manufacturing facilities are one of the chief sources
of our impact on the environment, and
we seek to provide a high degree of
transparency through the carbon footprint
we calculate and the environmental data
we are reporting for 2011.
The scope of the report
This CSR report was prepared in accordance with Danish Financial Statements Act
requirements with respect to corporate
social responsibility reporting. The report
covers the financial year of 1 January –

31 December 2011 and forms part of the
annual report’s management statement
as signed and approved by the Board of
Directors and Corporate Management on
8 March 2012.
In our CSR report, we focus on our largest
facilities: Kvistgård (headquarters, industrial production, quality control laboratories, technical services department and
administration), Martinsried (research
and development), Berlin (production of
clinical trial materials) and Mountain View,
California (research and development).
Taken together, these facilities employ
more than 99% of the Group's staff and
are responsible for most by far of the
energy and raw materials consumed. The
other facilities – Washington, DC, and Singapore – are office facilities only and thus
of minor importance in this respect.
Since we opened our production facility
at Kvistgård in 2005, we have published
annual 'green accounts' reporting on the
environmental conditions of the Company.
Starting in 2011, however, we decided
to include this information in our CSR
report instead, which has been expanded
to include reporting on use of raw and
ancillary materials, water use, wastewater
amount and contents, waste amounts
and air emissions. Another new feature is
reporting on instances of non-compliance
with environmental protection law; this
data is shown below in section 10. Thus
our 2011 CSR report includes several more
GRI indicators than the 2010 CSR report
did (see section 12 below).
We also included more employee-related
data in our 2011 report.

Figure 2. Distribution of employees by
facility location (year-end 2011)

 Kvistgård

252

  Martinsried & Berlin

143

  Mountain View

53

 Washington

3

 Singapore

1

CSR report 2011 	 5

		

2. Bavarian Nordic – in brief

Bavarian Nordic develops and
manufactures innovative vaccines for the prevention and
treatment of life-threatening
diseases where there are as
yet unmet needs. The Company's clinical pipeline focuses
on cancer and infectious diseases.

Our two leading projects are PROSTVAC®, a
therapeutic prostate cancer vaccine candidate in clinical Phase 3 development, and
IMVAMUNE®, a third-generation smallpox
vaccine being developed and supplied
under contract with the US government.
The Company has built a manufacturing
facility at Kvistgård in Denmark solely
for the production and quality control of
the smallpox vaccine supplied to the US
National Strategic Stockpile.

The Company is listed on the NASDAQ
OMX Copenhagen and has roughly 21
thousand shareholders. For more information on the Company and its ownership
structure, please see our 2011 annual
report or the Company's website:
www.bavarian-nordic.com.

	 6	 CSR report 2011

3. Policies

Bavarian Nordic develops and
manufactures vaccines for
the prevention and treatment
of life-threatening diseases
where there are as yet unmet
needs.
In doing so, we seek to create a continuing business that will ensure the Company’s growth and investment in research
and development and thus continue to
contribute to a healthier and safer society.
At the same time, we focus on working
and acting responsibly with respect to the
world we live in. We aim to do this by
•	 manufacturing high-quality vaccines.
•	 working actively to minimise our impact
on the environment and climate.
•	 maintaining an active dialogue with our
stakeholders – on a local, national and
global level.
•	 providing a safe and healthy working
environment for our staff that includes
opportunities for professional and personal development.
•	 communicating our CSR policy to external collaboration partners, including our
suppliers.

Environmental policy

Health and safety policy

At Bavarian Nordic, we design our vaccine production facilities and procedures so that there is no risk of viruses
escaping into the indoor or outdoor
environment through the air, our waste
or our wastewater. We at Bavarian
Nordic work continually to improve our
environmental efforts.

A safe and healthy working environment is vital to employee safety and
satisfaction at the workplace. We always comply with the applicable rules
and regulations in this field and focus
on systematically mapping both the
physical and mental working environment so that the necessary preventive
steps can be taken, for the benefit of
individual employees as well as the
Company as a whole. The aims of our
general health and safety policy are

Our aims are
•	 to encourage environmentally aware
behaviour and prevent contamination and pollution throughout the
Company.
•	 to reduce our environmental impact
by
	 developing and using processes
that have a minimum of environmental impact.
	 optimising our utilisation of materials and energy.
	 reducing emissions and waste.
•	 to comply with environmental
protection regulations and relevant
requirements.
•	 to gradually build an environmental
management system based on the
principles in the ISO 14001 standard.

•	 to promote awareness of healthand safety-related behaviour in all
employees as part of their day-today work and to produce proactive
solutions to potential problems.
•	 to gradually develop a management
system to facilitate this proactive
safety work.

CSR report 2011 	 7

		

4. Products

Bavarian Nordic helps make
the world healthier, safer
and more secure through its
development and production
of innovative vaccines for the
prevention and treatment
of life-threatening diseases.
Through our research, we also
wish to continue to contribute
to human health with the development of new vaccines.

The Company's most advanced project
within infectious diseases is our thirdgeneration smallpox vaccine IMVAMUNE®,
which is already being produced at our
Kvistgård facility and supplied to governments around the world to form part of
their national preparedness for potential
bioterror attacks. The vaccine is not yet
fully developed, but its favourable safety
profile and the fact that it has been tested
extensively in more than 3,400 people,
both healthy and immunocompromised,
has led to certain governments prioritising a stockpile of the vaccine for potential
use in persons who do not tolerate the
traditional smallpox vaccines (the firstand second-generation vaccines) used as
recently as in the 1970s.
IMVAMUNE® is manufactured at our Kvistgård facility, which has been scaled up
in recent years to its current capacity of
four batches a week due to a large-scale
contract with the US government. Under
the current agreement, Bavarian Nordic
will provide 20 million doses, two million
of which were delivered in 2010 and four

million in 2011. Deliveries totalling 14 million doses are planned for 2012 and 2013.
The main processes involved in vaccine
production are shown below in Figure 3.
The IMVAMUNE® vaccine is based on a
live attenuated virus, so it cannot be
heat sterilised, as that would destroy the
active substance in the vaccine. For this
reason, a scrupulous quality control and
cleanliness assurance has been built into
the entire process. The pharmaceutical
industry works according to the rules of
Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP. GMP
includes strict requirements with respect
to a product’s traceability, strength, quality and purity, which means that quality
management is built into each step of
the manufacturing process. GMP rules are
laid down by the Danish, European and
American health authorities; Bavarian
Nordic supplies these markets and thus
complies with these quality requirements.
Product safety is crucial in our business,
and quality and responsibility have been
built into our systems and our entire
corporate culture.

Figure 3. The IMVAMUNE® smallpox vaccine production process.
1. Cell production
The first part of the process is the
production of cells to be used in the
subsequent cultivation of the virus.

Cell culture

Virus replication

2. Cell cultivation (virus growth)
The next step is the addition of the
virus to the cells. The infected cells are
allowed to stand for a given amount of
time so the virus can replicate.

Harvesting

Filtering

Separation (virus harvesting)
The virus is separated from the cells,
purified and then either stored or
packaged.

Formulation

Filling

	 8	 CSR report 2011

5. Environment

The environment plays an
important role at Bavarian
Nordic. When we built our
factory in the Danish town of
Kvistgård in 2005, we had a
great deal of focus on its environmental impact. Since then,
we have continually worked to
minimise our environmental
impact and continue to work
actively with environmental,
health and safety planning in
new building projects as well.

Bavarian Nordic was categorised as a
Level 1 company in 2007, i.e. the environmental protection authorities deem
the Company to be at the forefront of
environmental work within the categories
of law-abiding conduct, systematisation
and information. The Company intends to
remain at this level.
Environmental parameters are regulated
by the Danish environmental protection
authorities through the environmental
approval they grant and permission to
use the municipal wastewater treatment
system.
We substantially reduced our relative
environmental impact in 2011, due to a far
more efficient utilisation of our production
facilities: although production has doubled, there has been no substantial rise
in water and energy consumption above
2010 levels.
In 2012 we will be concentrating even
more on how we can make our relative
environmental impact more efficient
with respect to the amount of energy

and water we use. In addition, we will
perform an energy screening of our entire
Kvistgård facility to determine how we
can optimise our energy consumption.
We installed two new steam boilers in
2010 to replace the rather old one we had
before, as the old boiler had overcapacity,
which resulted in a high level of energy
consumption. The new solution also gave
us a better operational reliability in connection with service and maintenance,
since there are now two boilers. One of
the results of this improvement is that
energy consumption at the facility has not
increased to any significant degree, even
though production volume is up by about
100%. NOx and CO emissions are also
down from previous levels: more detailed
figures can be found in section 10 below.
Carbon footprint
Bavarian Nordic's carbon footprint figures
can be seen in Table 1 of section 10 and in
Figure 4 below. The carbon footprint data
shows the Company's energy consumption and emissions expressed in tonnes
of CO2.
Total global CO2 emissions dropped by 2%,
from 3,787 tonnes in 2010 to 3,700 tonnes
in 2011. CO2 emissions from Kvistgård in
2011 were largely the same as in 2010,
although there was a small reduction
of less than 1%. Relative emissions per
batch fell to half the level they were year
before: this is due to the fact that the
Kvistgård facility doubled the number of
batches it produced while total emissions
remained almost unchanged.
The total emissions figure of 3,400 tonnes
of CO2 corresponds to the emissions produced by about 285 Danish households.1

Figure 4. Carbon footprint:
global CO2 emissions
t CO2
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0

2009

2010

2011

 Kvistgård    Martinsried
 Berlin     Mountain View

Figure 5. Carbon footprint, Kvistgård.
Indexed CO2 emissions per batch
Index
120
100
80
60
40
20
0

2009

2010

2011

 Kvistgård

Total global CO2 emissions
dropped by 2%, to 3,700
tonnes in 2011. Relative
emissions per batch fell to
half the level they were year
before.

Bavarian Nordic's targets can be seen in
section 10 below.

1 A Danish household is estimated to emit roughly 13 tonnes of CO2 per year, corresponding to 2.1 persons with an annual average emission of 6.2 tonnes of CO2
each. Sources: Statistics Denmark and 'CO2 emissions in eco-societies', project report dated July 2009 by Pöyry Energy Consulting.

CSR report 2011 	 9

		

6. Employees

At Bavarian Nordic, we believe
that it pays to have a good
working environment, both
for the Company and for its
employees. A good working
environment should ensure
satisfied and efficient workers
and a low rate of absence due
to illness.

A vital part of a good working environment is a strong sense of identity and
shared culture: this is especially important
when an organisation is growing rapidly.
For this reason, we laid down a set of values in 2011 that describe who we are and
how we work at Bavarian Nordic. We are
currently working actively to implement
these values throughout the organisation, also by setting up a management
development training course for all
managers and introducing new employee
performance review forms that are based
on our values.
Personal and organisational development
We are an innovative knowledge-based
company, and it is important for us to
attract and retain highly qualified workers. Also for this reason, we want to offer
our staff a good working environment
that provides them with development
opportunities as well. There are plentiful
opportunities at Bavarian Nordic, both for
development within a field of work by
rotation between production, laboratory

and office jobs or for development vertically within the management hierarchy.
As a result, we are happy to recruit
internally, and we focus on staff development potential in our annual employee
performance reviews.
It is crucial that our employees have the
necessary tools and techniques to perform well in their jobs now and in future.
Our goal is, as a minimum, for our workers and managers to always have the
skills to look for and find their own job.
For this reason, we focus on continuing
training and education and on upgrading
qualifications, also using our employee
performance reviews to evaluate needs
and wishes in this respect.
Employee health and job satisfaction
At Bavarian Nordic we strive towards a
good, healthy work-life balance. We work
actively to counteract stress. We have a
focus on stress indicators in daily work
life and offer help in handling stress as
needed.

Our values
Excellence

Agility

Dedication

•	 We show ambition and openness to
novel approaches

•	 We adapt with speed and flexibility to
business challenges and opportunities

•	 We show commitment and motivation
to the development of the business

•	 We are goal oriented and deliver on
our promises

•	 We are accountable and willing to
make decisions

•	 We show initiative and persistence in
what we do

•	 We show determination to succeed
and perform above expectations and
market standards

•	 We are enthusiastic in how we work
and show a deep felt interest in what
we are here for

	10	 CSR report 2011

The overall Bavarian Nordic absence rate for 2011 was 3.7%,
which is lower than the rate for 2010. The average absence
rate measured for the pharmaceutical industry in Denmark as a
whole was 5.8%.
All staff at Kvistgård are included in our
corporate health insurance policy, which
ensures fast and professional help and
treatment at private hospitals and from
psychologists, chiropractors, physiotherapists, etc., should the need arise.
A good, safe working environment
We must always ensure that Company employees can do their jobs under safe and
secure conditions, and we work continually
to optimise workplace safety. The number
of work-related accidents that occurred in
2011 was lower than in 2010 and 2009.
The accident rate at Bavarian Nordic is
substantially below the average accident
rate for white-collar and blue-collar workers at Danish business enterprises.2
Figure 6. The accident rate at Bavarian
Nordic compared with the DI (Confederation of Danish Industry) statistics for
work-related accidents (all occupational
groups).
A large number of new employees were
hired at Kvistgård in 2011, so there was a
great deal of focus on giving them a careful and complete introduction and start,
along with sufficient time to learn new
work processes and procedures. This was
one of the factors behind the low accident
rate in 2011.
The Company’s occupational health and
safety work at our different sites varies to
comply with different countries’ regulatory

requirements. At Kvistgård, workplace
assessments are used regularly to chart
health and safety factors, and relevant
improvement initiatives based on these
assessments are put forward, prioritised
and translated into an action plan. In
compliance with Danish regulations, a
number of health and safety groups plus
one health and safety committee are appointed that have both management and
worker representatives. Regular committee meetings are held over the course of
the year at which members follow up on
action plans in order to improve working
conditions and safety.
Absence
The overall Bavarian Nordic absence rate
for 2011 was 3.7%, which is lower than the
rate for 2010. The average absence rate
measured for the pharmaceutical industry

in Denmark as a whole was 5.8%.3 The
decrease in the absence rate was mainly
due to a lower number of employees with
a long-term illness.
We have been working actively for several
years on dialogue-based sickness absence
management, ahead of legislative trends.
We generally achieve a quicker return to
work by handling each case individually,
also including an option to return to work
part-time or with other tasks at first.
Because the Company's absence registration system is not automated, it is a timeconsuming task both for the individual
employee and for the administrative staff
that handle payroll- and personnel-related
functions. We are still working to implement an efficient and more cost-effective
system and to draft uniform guidelines for
registering absence across the Group.
Employee turnover
Employee turnover is included in the CSR
report this year, for the first time. The
actual turnover figures and targets can be
seen in Table 7 of section 10 below.

Figure 6. Accident rate

Figure 7. Absence

Frekvens

Frekvens

30

7%

25

6%
5%

20

4%

15

3%

10

2%

5

1%

0

0%

2009

2010

  Bavarian Nordic  

2011
 Benchmark

Accidents per million working hours.
Compared with the DI (Confederation of Danish
Industry) statistics for work-related accidents (all
occupational groups).
2 Confederation of Danish Industry, ‘Work-related accidents: Personnel 2011’ (in Danish), based on 2010.
3 Confederation of Danish Industry, ‘Absence statistics: Personnel 2011’ (in Danish), based on 2010.

2009

2010

  Bavarian Nordic  

2011
 Benchmark

Compared with DI (Confederation of Danish
Industry) statistics for absence (pharmaceutical
industry).

		

CSR report 2011 	 11

7. Suppliers

We want to lay down a
number of guidelines for
our collaboration with raw
materials suppliers as an
integrated element of
Bavarian Nordic’s CSR policy.

In 2010, we mapped out the geographical
locations of our raw materials suppliers
and found that they are primarily located
in North America and the EU, in countries
that have public regulatory authorities
monitoring social and environmental
parameters. Against this backdrop, we
decided to implement social and environmental conditions as part of the purchasing process by including in our contracts
information on the Company's business
ethics and our expectations that our suppliers comply with basic ethical, social
and environmental guidelines.
We will also include social and environmental parameters as a regular feature of
our supplier auditing procedure. In accordance with Good Manufacturing Practice
(GMP) and our own supplier management
system currently in place, all our raw

materials suppliers are subject to audit
visits every other year. This gives us a
unique opportunity to discuss our suppliers' own CSR work with them. Starting in
2011, we are also reporting on the number
of supplier audits we conduct; see section
10 below.
New potential suppliers will also be evaluated with respect to their geographical
location and thus the risk they represent,
and an assessment will be made as to
whether any action is necessary.
In 2012 we will begin including CSR
experience as a point of evaluation in
the auditing process. We will review the
results of these audits over the course of
the year and discuss whether any new
steps need to be taken.

We decided to implement social and environmental conditions
as part of the purchasing process by including in our contracts
information on the Company's business ethics and our expectations that our suppliers comply with basic ethical, social and
environmental guidelines.

	12	 CSR report 2011

8. Business ethics

Bavarian Nordic prioritises
business ethics as a natural
part of its underlying business
concept. We want to be seen
as credible and reliable in the
eyes of our collaboration partners and the rest of the world
around us.

Bavarian Nordic has developed a Code of
Ethics and Business Conduct that must be
observed by everyone in the Company.
Management is obliged to take violations
of the code seriously.
The Company's management has also
decided to introduce a whistleblower
scheme that makes it compulsory to
report possible violations. This system
is intended both to ensure protection of
people who report potential violations of
the law and to ensure that such reports
are investigated and corrective action
taken if necessary. The preliminary work
to establish the programme has begun,
and implementation is expected sometime in 2012.
The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
contains rules within a large number of
areas, including:
•	 Compliance with laws, rules and regulations
•	 Conflicts of interest
•	 Gifts, free services and entertainment
•	 Corrupt practices

Breach of the Code may result in disciplinary action being taken, perhaps even
termination of employment.
The Code also includes the rules and regulations in the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act (FCPA) and the Truth in Negotiations
Act (TINA) that are relevant in connection
with the Company's business transactions
and negotiations in the USA.
The Company also otherwise commits
itself to cooperating in connection with
investigations organised by authorised
individuals working on behalf of authorities with legitimate rights.

CSR report 2011 	 13

		

9. Independent auditor’s
review report
To the Executive Board of
Bavarian Nordic A/S
We have reviewed the key performance
indicators on page 14, with supporting tables 1 to 7, for 2011 as disclosed in
Bavarian Nordic A/S’ Corporate Social
Responsibility Report 2011 (“the Report”). The purpose of our review was to
issue a report thereon. The data are the
responsibility of the Company’s Management. Our responsibility is to express a
conclusion based on our review.
Scope of review
We conducted our review in accordance
with the Danish Standard on Assurance
Engagements (“RS 3000 "Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews
of Historical Financial Information"). The

Copenhagen, 8 March 2012

Deloitte
Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab

Preben J. Sørensen
State Authorised Public Accountant

purpose was to obtain limited assurance
that the data presented are in accordance
with the reporting practice described in
the Report on pages 22 and 23 as well as
with information submitted by the reporting units.
Our review was based on an assessment
of the risk of material misstatement. We
have evaluated the basis of accounting
applied and analysed correlations with
the Company's activities.
The review was limited primarily to
inquiries of company personnel and analytical procedures, and thus a limited level
of assurance is lower than the assurance
which would have been obtained if we
had performed an audit.

Conclusion
During our review, nothing has come to
our attention that causes us to believe
that the key performance indicators, with
supporting tables 1 to 7, for 2011 have not
•	 been obtained from the reporting units
in accordance with the Company’s procedures in this respect;
•	 on this basis, been presented in accordance with the reporting practice
described.

	14	 CSR report 2011

10. Key figures and targets

List of key figures
For some of the key figures below, there is underlying data explained in the tables indicated.
Figures for raw and ancillary materials, water, wastewater, waste, and non-compliance with and violations of other laws are stated for
Kvistgård only. We will be working to include key figures from more of our sites in the long term.

		Unit	Table	

2011	

2010	

2009

Carbon footprint, global		
t CO2	1	
3,700	3,787	2,705
Carbon footprint, Kvistgård, Index per batch		
-	
1	
53	108	100
Raw and ancillary materials, etc. 		
-	
2	
-	
	
Water		m3	-	
10,789	
	
Process wastewater		
m3	3	
6,917	
	
Solid waste		
tonnes	
4	
131	
	
Recycled waste		
%	
4	
10	
	
Incidents of non-compliance with environmental
protection legislation		
number	
6	
2	
	
Violation of other legislation 		
number	
-	
0	
	
			
	
	
Absence without leave		
%	
7	
3.7	4.6	4.6
Employee turnover		
%	
7	
15.0	
	
Accident rate		
	
7	
4.0	 7.6	15.2
Supplier audits		
number	
-	
25	
	

CSR report 2011 	 15

		

1. Carbon footprint
CO2 emissions have dropped by roughly 2%. Kvistgård's emissions increased by less than 1%, but relative emissions decreased by 51%.
Kvistgård, where the Company's industrial production and a large share of its total laboratory activities take place, is also the facility that contributes most to the Company's total carbon footprint. The largest source of CO2 emissions is the use of electrical power,
followed by the use of natural gas for heating. The power is used to run ventilation systems, a refrigeration compressor, process equipment, refrigerators, freezers, air compressors, office equipment and lighting; the natural gas is used for heating and steam production.
In 2011, we laid the groundwork for setting environmental and climate impact targets. We have made Kvistgård's carbon footprint a
key figure per batch, which due to competition reasons is indexed, with the year 2009 as index 100. In 2012 and going forward, we will
endeavour to continue to reduce our relative climate impact, and we will carry out energy screening of the Kvistgård facility.
The emissions factor for natural gas (Kvistgård) has been changed, as we have decided to use the Danish Energy Agency as a source
going forward. We also switched the emission factors for 2009-2010 to Danish Energy Agency figures.
Due to new information, the figures for Mountain View have been altered for 2010 compared with last year's report, and this is one of
the reasons why CO2 emissions for 2010 are higher than previously reported.
The figure for heat consumption at Martinsried was not read off the meter, but is an estimate based on 2010 figures.
			Unit	

2011	

2010	

2009

Carbon footprint – global			

t CO2	

3,700	3,787	2,705

Direct emissions (scope 1)	
	
	
Heating	
	
	
Electricity generation			
Fugitive emissions			
Transport of employees (motor vehicles)			
Transport of raw materials (internal)			

	
t CO2	
t CO2	
t CO2	
t CO2	
t CO2	

1,225	1,356	 956
3	3	1
8	4	6
65	 72	68
1	0	0

Indirect emissions (scope 2)	
	
	
Electrical power, purchased			
Heating, purchased	
	
	
Cooling, purchased			
	
	
	
Carbon footprint, Kvistgård			
Carbon footprint, Kvistgård, index per batch			

	
t CO2	
t CO2	
t CO2	
	
t CO2	
-	

2,110	2,010	1,494
288	342	180
-	
-	
2,565	2,587	2,223
53	108	100

	16	 CSR report 2011

2. Raw and ancillary materials
As Kvistgård is the Company's production facility and thus responsible for the highest consumption of energy, water, raw materials,
etc., we decided to start out by reporting this data for our Kvistgård site alone.
Chicken eggs are used as a raw material in production and inoculated with MVA-BN® to produce the active substance of the vaccine. Ready-mixed media (nutrients) are used to culture the biological agents, and ready-made saline solutions to purify the active
substance. Disinfectants are used, along with acids and bases to clean systems and equipment and to adjust the pH of the wastewater
before discharging it into the municipal sewer system. Disinfectants are also used to disinfect the eggs before further processing.
Glycol is used in the cooling/refrigeration systems, along with small amounts of corrosion inhibitors for the production of steam and
CFC coolants for refilling.
By most measures, both production and raw materials consumption in 2011 were twice what they were in 2010.

			Unit	

2011	

2010 	

2009

Eggs			pcs.	
790,090	285,948	266,496
Various ready-mix media, etc.			
litres	
184,560	100,643	 85,371
Acid/base			litres	
10,962	
5,065	
4,333
Salt (NaCl)			
tonnes	
9	
9	
6
Cleaning agents, disinfection			
litres	
27,238	
9,112	
4,454
Plastic bags			
pcs.	
15,314	
6,675	
8,288
Cooling agents, propylene glycol, etc.			
litres	
610	
500	
1,208
CO2			m3	
3,116	
2,385	
3,357
N2			Nm3	
777	
649	
899
Propane			kg	
385	
605	
374
Agar plates			
pcs.	
128,165	
97,980	
78,210
Media for process simulation			
litres	
8,717	
6,636	
4,922

3. Wastewater
The figures stated are for Kvistgård only. Process wastewater is heat-inactivated, cooled and pH adjusted before being discharged into
the public sewer system. Inactivation is a procedure that ensures that all virus remnants are rendered 100% harmless, and the system
is checked for operational problems before discharge. This treatment ensures that the discharged wastewater complies with the requirements in the Company's permit to use the municipal sewer system, which was issued in October 2004. Wastewater is tested and
analysed once or twice a year, and the amounts specified below are based on an average of the findings.

			Unit	

2011	

2010	

2009

Process wastewater			
m3	
6,917	
Phosphorus			kg	20	
Nitrogen			kg	161	
Total organic carbon (TOC)			
kg	
530	
Chlorides			kg	
2,628	

12,871 	
41	
223	
1,115 	
1,416 	

7,740
5
29
110
389

CSR report 2011 	 17

		

4. Solid waste
Industrial waste consists primarily of two fractions: disposable process equipment and egg waste. Disposable process equipment
includes production bags, tubing and other disposable equipment. The bags are autoclaved and sent to incineration. The egg waste is
also sent to incineration. Hazardous waste includes organic solvents, acids, bases, hazardous clinical waste, etc.

			Unit	

2011	

2010	

2009

Total waste			
tonnes	
131	
Hazardous waste	
	
	
tonnes	
24	
Incineration			%	71	
Recycling			%	10	
Special treatment			
%	
18	

100	
8	
80	
11	
8	

76
4
83
11
6

5. Air emissions	

	

	

	

Air emissions were measured in 2011 after we installed two new boilers to replace the old one. The figures stated for 2009 and 2010
are estimated on the basis of measurements made in 2007.

			Unit	

2011	

2010	

2009

NO x/NO2			kg	
272	353	353
CO			kg	77	163	163

6. Non-compliance with environmental protection legislation				
Bavarian Nordic received a request from the environmental protection authorities for compliance with section 8 of the Danish environmental permits act because we built a concrete facing wall without having given the authorities advance notice first. The environmental authorities also issued a enforcement notice to secure compliance with a condition in connection with a way to prevent spillover
into the storm drain system. Both matters have been resolved, and there are no longer any outstanding issues with the environment
authorities.
We have received no complaints from next-door neighbours or others. We are aware of the importance of maintaining a good dialogue
with our neighbours. When Bavarian Nordic established a presence in Kvistgård, we invited our neighbours to an information meeting,
just as our neighbours and the public in general were involved through two consultation exercises held in connection with the environmental assessment process. We have also carried out several projects based on suggestions from our neighbours. In our daily work, we
are occasionally in contact with our neighbours, especially in matters to do with noise, which is what affects them most directly. Also
because of this contact, we are aware of the impact we can have in connection with both our production and our construction projects.

			Unit	
Violations of terms, etc. and accidental discharge		
Number	
Complaints			Number	

2011	

	

2	
0	

	
	

	18	 CSR report 2011

7. Employees
The number of employees increased in 2011, by 14% globally and by 19% at Kvistgård. The increase is primarily due to new hires at
Kvistgård resulting from a higher level of activity, with production volume having doubled. The rate of absence was lower in 2011.
Approximately one third of the employees in Kvistgård are under collective agreements with the shortest possible notice at changes of
3x24 hours.
Employee turnover has increased in 2011, which partly may be explained by the fact that shiftwork was introduced in the production
during the year, which may have led to increased number of resignations amongst the employees.
The 2011 accident rate was a little over half what it was the year before, in spite of the fact that the 2010 level was considered a minimum level and that many new employees were hired in 2011.
Our target for 2012 is to maintain the accident rate at 2010 or 2011 levels.

			Unit	

2011	

2010	

2009

Employees, total (year-end)			Number	
452	 412	360
Employees, total (converted to full-time equivalents,
average over the year)			Number	
429	377	337
Distribution:				
Kvistgård			Number	
245	206	 177
Martinsried and Berlin			
Number	
131	128	126
Mountain View			
Number	
49	37	28
Washington, DC			
Number	
3	4	4
Singapore			Number	
1	2	2
	
	
	
	
Absence			 %	3.6	4.6	4.6
	
	
	
	
Employee turnover			%	
15.0	-		
	
	
	
Employee groups, Kvistgård	
	
	
	
Under collective agreement			
Number	
71	
-	
White-collar workers without management responsibility		
Number	
145	
-	
White-collar workers with management responsibility		
Number	
34	
-	
Executive managers			
Number	
2	
-	
	
	
	
	
Accidents, total			Number	
3	5	9
Kvistgård			Number	
3	4	8
Martinsried and Berlin			
Number	
0	1	1
Mountain View			
Number	
0	0	0
Washington, DC			
Number	
0	0	0
Singapore			Number	
0	0	0
	
	
	
	
Accident rate				
4.0	
7.6	
15.2

		

CSR report 2011 	 19

11. CSR elements

					People	Planet	Profit
				
	
	
Our values				
Quality system				
			
				
Policies				
	
	
General CSR policy				
Environmental policy					
		
Health and safety policy	
	
	 	
			
Suppliers policy				
	
	
Trade in Company shares					
	
	
Handling of inside information	
	
	 	
	
	
				
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct				
	
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct						
	
Gifts, gratuities, and entertainment						
	
Complying with laws and regulations						
	
Conflicts of Interest	
	
	 	
	
	
	
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)						
	
Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA)						
	
Government investigations						
	
Creating accurate records and preserving Company records					
	
Timekeeping requirements						
				
Working conditions				
			
Stress management and conflict management	 	
	 	
Dialogue-based sickness absence management				
			
Health insurance	
	
	 	
			
Staff association				
			
Phantom share scheme				
			
				
Tools				
			
Management development training course				
Employee performance reviews 				
			
Ethics hotline for reporting violations, etc.				
	
	
				
Special groups and committees				
	
	
Values work group				
Health and safety work group	
	
	 	
			
Health and safety committee	
	
	 	
Environment work group				
			
CSR group				
	
	

	20	 CSR report 2011

12. GRI indicators

Just like the CSR reports of previous years, this report was inspired by elements from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)4, a recognised framework for sustainability reporting. The GRI structure includes principles and indicators used to measure and explain financial,
environmental and social performance. Our 2011 report has been expanded to include many new GRI indicators plus the list below of
all the indicators and their implementation.

GRI ref..	Description	Reference
Profile Disclosure	
1.2	
Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.	
2.1	
Name of the organization.	
2.2	
Primary brands, products, and/or services.	
2.3	
Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies,
subsidiaries, and joint ventures.	
2.4	
Location of organization's headquarters.	
2.5	
Number of countries where the organization operates.	
2.6	
Nature of ownership and legal form.	
2.7	
Markets served.	
2.8	
Scale of the reporting organization.	
			
2.9	
Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership.	
2.10	
Awards received in the reporting period.	
3.1	
Reporting period.	
3.2	
Date of most recent previous report.	
3.3	
Reporting cycle 	
3.4	
Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.	
3.5	
Process for defining report content.	
3.6	
Boundary of the report.	
3.7	
State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report.	
3.9	
Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and
techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other
information in the report.	
3.10	
Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the
reasons for such re-statement.	
3.11	
Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement
methods applied in the report.	
3.12	
Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report.	
3.13	
Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.	
4.2	
Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer.	
4.3	
The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members.	
4.8	
Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to
economic, environmental, and social performance.	

4 http://www.globalreporting.org

Section 1
Section 1
Section 2
Annual Report
Section 1
Section 1
Section 2
Section 2
Section 10 and
Annual Report
Annual Report
None
Section 1
Section 1
Section 1
Back cover
Section 1
Section 1
Section 1

Section 13
Section 10
Section 1, 3 & 13
Section 12
Section 9
Annual Report
Annual Report
Section 3 & 6

		

CSR report 2011 	 21

GRI ref..	Description	Reference
Economic performance indicators
EC1	
Direct economic value generated and distributed.	
Environmental performance indicators		
EN1	
Materials used by weight or volume.	
EN2	
Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.	
EN3	
Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.	
EN4	
Indirect energy consumption by primary source.	
EN5	
Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.	
EN8	
Total water withdrawal by source.	
EN16	
Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.	
EN17	
Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.	
EN18	
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.	
EN19	
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.	
EN20	
NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.	
EN21	
Total water discharge by quality and destination.	
EN22	
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.	
EN23	
Total number and volume of significant spills.	
EN24	
Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous.	
EN28	
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations.	
Social performance indicators
LA1	
Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region.	
LA2	
Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.	
LA3	
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time
employees, by major operations.	
LA4	
Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.	
LA5	
Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is
specified in collective agreements.	
LA7	
Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related
fatalities by region.	
LA8	
Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce
members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.	
LA11	
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability
of employees and assist them in managing career endings.	
HR2	
Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human
rights and actions taken.	
HR6	
Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to
contribute to the elimination of child labor.	
HR7	
Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and
measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor.	
S01	
Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the
impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting.	
S03	
Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures.	
S08	
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.	
PR1	
Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for
improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures.	

Annual Report

Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 5
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 5
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10

Section 10
Section 10
Annual Report
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 6
Section 6
Section 7
Section 6 & 7
Section 10
Section 5
Section 8
Section 10
Section 4

	22	 CSR report 2011

13. Reporting principles

The basis data for this report covers the
entities stated in the table. All data for
resource and raw materials consumption
and finished products comprises only the

production facility in Kvistgård. Data has
been gathered to the extent it has been
accessible within the boundaries of our
existing systems.

Indicator	Reference	Entities included
Carbon Footprint (tCO2) 	
Other environmental data	
Accident rate	
Absence	
Number of employees 	
Employee turnover	

Table 1	
Table 2-6	
Table 7	
Table 7	
Table 7	
Table 7	

K, M, B, C 1)
K
K, M, B, C, W, S
K, M, B
K, M, B, C, W, S
K

K: Kvistgård, M: Martinsried, B: Berlin, C: California (Mountain View), W: Washington, S: Singapore
1) T he comparison figure for 2009 in table 1 does not include Berlin and Mountain View. These entities are
included in the calculation from 2010 and onwards.

Carbon Footprint
Setting a starting point
Our carbon footprint calculations are
based on the standard and recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Initiative5 for calculating an organisation’s
total carbon emissions, which include
the six greenhouse gasses addressed by
the Kyoto Protocol – CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,
PFCs and SF6 – calculated in tonnes of CO2
equivalents. Emissions sources are divided
into three scopes: direct emissions from
activities under the Company’s control

(Scope 1), emissions from the consumption of electrical power (Scope 2) and
indirect emissions from products and
services (Scope 3).
According to the recommendations,
organisations should report on Scope 1
and Scope 2 as a minimum, and this is
what we have decided to do in our carbon
footprint statement.
We calculated the total carbon emissions
from our locations at Kvistgård, Martinsried, Berlin and Mountain View with

a view to establishing a starting point
for the following four different types of
emissions:
Natural gas and oil
This figure is based primarily on current
consumption as measured by monthly
meter readings. Oil used for emergency
generators, however, is estimated on the
basis of oil consumption over a fiveyear-period. Greenhouse gas emissions
from the combustion of fossil fuels are
calculated on the basis of an average
emission factor.

5 www.ghgprotocol.org
6 http://www.ens.dk/da-DK/KlimaOgCO2/CO2Kvoter/produktionsenheder/co2_rapportering/Documents/standardfaktorer%202011.pdf
7 http://www.pge.com/myhome/environment/calculator/assumptions.shtml
8 Energinet, an independent public enterprise under the Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building: http://www.energinet.dk/DA/KLIMA-OG-MILJOE/Miljoedeklarationer/Sider/Miljoedeklarering-af-1-kWh-el.aspx
9 IEA, The International Energy Agency, an independent organisation working to ensure reliable, cheap and clean energy for its 28 member countries.
10 AGFW, Der Energieeffizienzverband für Wärme, Kälte und KWK e. V.

CSR report 2011 	 23

		

Fugitive emissions
Fugitive emissions include CO2 from the
use of dry ice and CO2 gas plus emissions
of greenhouse gasses from cooling and
refrigeration systems.
Electricity
Electrical power consumption is based on
meter readings recorded at the year-end.
The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions from electrical power consumption
is based on specific emission factors
provided by the power company and an
average emission factor for the generation of power in Germany.
Mileage (km)
This figure is calculated on the basis of
receipts from petrol companies and includes motor vehicles owned or leased by
the Company. Greenhouse gas emissions
are calculated on the basis of an average
fuel-specific emission factor for ordinary
cars in Denmark and Germany.
Emission factors
In calculating CO2 emissions, specific
emission factors based on emission type
and geographic location were used. CO2
emissions from the combustion of natural
gas, oil, petrol, diesel fuel and LPG and
from fugitive emissions were deemed to
have a general global effect with minor
local differences. Emission factors from
these sources are based on data provided

by the Danish Energy Agency6, except for
natural gas emission factors for Mountain
View, which are based on figures from
The Pacific Gas and Electric Company7, a
provider of natural gas and electricity in
California.

total days of absence with the average
annual number of full-time employees
times the number of working days

Emissions for locally purchased electricity were determined on the basis of local
conditions. Emission factors for Kvistgård
are based on factors for Denmark as a
whole.8 Emission calculations for electrical
power at Mountain View are based on
emission factors provided by The Pacific
Gas and Electric Company. Emission calculations for electrical power purchased in
Germany are based on general German
emission factors9; emission calculations
for district heating purchased in Germany
are based on emission factors published
by the German confederation of energy
efficiency improvement within heating,
cooling, and combined heat and power
generation.10

Staff turnover is calculated as the number
of employees that left their jobs divided
by the average number of employees
over the course of the year.

Absence
Absence data cover registration of staff
sick days, child sick days, hospital visits
and admissions, and absence as a result
of work-related accidents. Leave – also
maternity and paternity leave – is not included in these figures. The absence rate
was calculated by dividing the number of

Employee turnover

Accidents
Work-related accident data relates to accidents resulting in more than one day of
absence. The definition of 'work-related
accident' in Danish law is the definition
applicable in this document.
The accident rate is calculated using the
total yearly number of working hours of
the Group based on the average annual
number of full-time employees times the
number of annual working hours. Holidays
are not included.

Phone: +45 3326 8383
www.bavarian-nordic.com
info@bavarian-nordic.com

Design and graphic production: meyer & bukdahl as

Bavarian Nordic A/S
Hejreskovvej 10A
DK-3490 Kvistgård
Denmark

