Mandatory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility, cf. the
Danish Financial Statements Act, Section 99a and Section 99b
This mandatory report on corporate social responsibility for Brødrene A & O Johansen A/S
is part of the Management’s Review in the Annual Report for 2015 and covers the
accounting period from 1 January to 31 December 2015.
In all of our business activities, AO wants to comply with current legislation and
international conventions in the countries and communities where we operate.
We respect and comply with competition rules, environmental legislation, labour market
legislation, agreements and safety requirements, and other regulations that provide the
framework for how we conduct business. We want to be a responsible company that
supports the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, the
environment and anti-corruption.
In relation to AO’s human rights work, a Supplier Code of Conduct has been prepared in
order to make sure that our suppliers take on the desired responsibility. It is an integral
part of our supplier agreements. Failure to meet our Supplier Code of Conduct will result in
a termination of contract. (Our Supplier Code of Conduct is available at AO.dk which is
updated on a regular basis).
AO operates primarily in Denmark, and the greater part of our purchases is made in the
EU. Our employees are our greatest asset, and we have therefore chosen to focus on
work environment issues and climate impact as the most important areas.
We have a working environment policy and an environmental policy focusing on the
continued improvement of the company’s performance.
Working environment
It is AO’s policy to constantly focus on competent and respectful management, motivation,
development/training and working environment, including


developing the skills of employees, so that their potential is being used, and their
value on the labour market is strengthened. In 2015 there was more focus on
education, and therefore the number of days spent on education and training
increased to 1,210 days (2014: 1,087 days)



providing a healthy and safe working environment with focus on the prevention of
accidents and injuries. The number of reported work-related injuries was 26 in
2015, including 13 minor injuries with less than a day’s absence from work, against
19 in 2014



ensuring a working environment where employee absenteeism is minimised, and
where work skills are kept up-to-date. At the beginning of 2015 the target for
absenteeism was set at 3%. During the year, there was focus on rapid follow-up on
the employees’ absenteeism, and it has therefore been possible to record a rate of
absenteeism of 2.3%. The target has therefore been met



AO’s policies and practices relating to recruitment, pay, promotion, working
conditions, corruption, and skills development are meant to ensure that
discrimination is avoided, and that decisions are made on the basis of objective
criteria.

The above-mentioned policies and actions are an integral part of our daily management
activities/culture, and they develop concurrently with AO’s strategies. The collected data is
part of our ongoing follow-up on the work environment assessment. We believe that the
collected data supports our goal of a “healthy and safe” working environment
Climate impact
AO’s administration and central warehouse in Albertslund have been environmentally
certified according to DS/EN ISO 14001 since 1999. Vaga Teknik was environmentally
certified according to the same standard in 2001. In October 2008 all facilities at the
address of the logistics centre in Horsens became certified, and the rental and service
functions at Herstedvang 6 in Albertslund achieved certification in September of 2010.
AO acknowledges that an active consideration for the environment is important, and
through our purchases, investments and other operations of the business we will help to
protect the environment. We focus on reducing the most significant environmental impacts
which we have assessed to be transport, waste, and energy and resource consumption.
Our environmental policy is available at the website AO.dk, which is updated on a regular
basis (in Danish only).
The following concrete actions concerning the environment need to be outlined:


Our administration and central warehouse in Albertslund and our logistics centre in
Horsens are environmentally certified according to DS/EN ISO 14001. More
information about our environmental certification is available at AO.dk (only in
Danish).



Our rental and service functions as well as our warehouse facilities at Herstedvang
6 in Albertslund are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001.



A number of environmental initiatives have been launched in order to reduce the
consumption of electricity and paper and to collect consumables for recycling.

The company’s environmental management system is audited once a year and new
objectives are determined.
AO’s environmental objectives for the 2013-2015 environmental policy are defined as
follows:
 Relative transport costs are to be reduced annually by 6%.
In 2015 relative transport costs were reduced by 2% compared with 2014. AO recorded
a revenue growth of 14% in 2015, and correspondingly, transport costs increased by
11% in the same period. In the course of the year, an optimisation of the loading
process in Albertslund was introduced. This led to a reduced number of line-haul
dispatches from Albertslund, and in practice a reduction of the actual environmental
impact was achieved. But the target of a 6% reduction in relative transport costs was
not obtained in 2015.
 Supply of goods to customers through the company’s stores is to be increased
annually by 6%.
In 2015, there was continued focus on using AO’s 49 nationwide stores as a focal point
for the collection of pick-up orders in the local areas. This resulted in a substantial
increase in the number of stock item deliveries through our stores. The number of pickup orders increased from 144,518 in 2014 to 173,033 in 2015. It is an increase of
19.7%, and the target has therefore been met.

 At Rørvang total energy consumption, including electricity, heat and fuels, is to
be reduced annually by 6%.
2015 was the year where AO’s new large high-bay warehouse finally came into
operation, and, overall seen, it resulted in an increase in the electricity consumption of
2%. Seen in isolation, the investment in LED lighting led to a fall in the electricity
consumption of 3%, even though there were more hours with full warehouse lighting in
2015 due to the introduction of night shifts. After the installation of energy
improvements, such as a building envelope and radiant heating panels, the total heat
consumption fell by 3%. Unfortunately, it was not enough to meet the target of a 6%
reduction in the total energy consumption.
 The company is to recycle more than 70% of its total waste (ongoing target).
AO continues to have full focus on the sorting of waste, and in 2014 it was decided that
AO should be a bit more ambitious in this respect, and therefore the waste sorting target
was raised from 60% to 70%. According to the waste analyses for 2015, the company
recycled 72% of its total waste at the logistics centre in Horsens, which is a decrease
attributable to the reduced activity. The central warehouse in Albertslund recycled 87%
of its total waste, mainly due to the taking over of activities previously undertaken in
Horsens, a generally increased market activity and a major increase in the number of
stored water supply and drainage products which require significant quantities of wood
that can be recycled. The recycling target of more than 70% has therefore been more
than successfully met.
In 2016 there will be extra focus on the energy consumption, as AO is in the target group
for the new energy audit imposed on all companies with more than 250 employees. This
means that AO’s stores are to be certified according to ISO 14001 in the spring of 2016.
This will create a new focus on the company’s total energy consumption.
Diversity in management
In keeping with Danish Act No. 1383 of 23 December 2012 on the introduction of rules
regarding target figures and policies for the gender composition of the supreme governing
board and the reporting thereof, the company has on 1 April 2013, decided that, in
connection with the ordinary general meeting in 2017 at the latest, the shareholder-elected
Board members are to be composed of at least 20% women. All shareholder-elected
Board members were re-elected at the ordinary general meeting in 2014. At the time of the
presentation of the financial statements the target figure has therefore not been reached.
In addition, the company has drawn up a policy to increase the share of the
underrepresented gender at the company’s other management levels in Denmark. The
goal is to achieve a share of female managers of at least 10% in 2017 at the latest. The
current gender composition of the company’s other management levels is 9% women and
91% men (2014: 6% women and 94% men). 19% of the company’s employees are
women. As a result of internal recruitment of managers, the number of female managers
increased during the year.
Through the above-mentioned policy the company seeks to create a good and versatile
workplace that promotes equal career opportunities for both women and men, and it is
therefore estimated that the share of the underrepresented gender at the company’s other
management levels will increase in the long term.
The company has decided not to have any other policies and targets regarding diversity.

