Statutory Report on Corporate Social
Responsibility, cf. Section 99a of the Danish
Financial Statements Act
This statutory report on corporate social responsibility for Brødrene A & O Johansen A/S
(hereinafter called “AO) is part of the Management’s Review in the Annual Report for 2016
and covers the accounting period from 1 January to 31 December 2016.
AO wants to comply with current legislation and international conventions in the countries
and communities where we operate. AO operates primarily in Denmark, and the greater
part of our purchases is made in the EU.
We respect and comply with competition rules, environmental legislation, labour market
legislation, agreements and safety requirements, and other regulations that provide the
framework for how we conduct business in the countries, where we operate.
In addition, we want to be a responsible company that, on a general level, supports the UN
Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, the environment and
anti-corruption.
In our work with Corporate Social Responsibility we have chosen to focus primarily on the
environment, and social conditions and working conditions as the most significant
areas.
This choice has been made on the basis of an analysis of CSR related risks and our social
impact in the local communities in which we operate. In our opinion, all the countries in
which we operate are well-regulated in relation to environment, social conditions, working
conditions, human rights, and anti-corruption. On this basis, we have concluded that we
can make a positive difference, both internally and externally, primarily by working with the
environment.
Social conditions and working conditions are the obvious choice due to the fact that we
consider our employees our greatest asset and the reason for our success and results.
The CSR policies are controlled by AO’s Board of Directors who, once a year, follow up on
financial and non-financial key figures.

AO’s Business Model
AO is a knowledge-based IT and logistics enterprise with a wide technical range of
heating, plumbing and sanitary ware products, electrical equipment and components,
water supply and drainage products, and tools.
The key concept is one-stop shopping where the customers are offered a complete
product range as part of a collection and delivery system, which is supported by strong IT
and online trading systems.
AO’s business is directed toward the professional market, the DIY market and the private
market. Through an efficient storage and distribution system AO is able to effect prompt
deliveries to professional tradesmen, private individuals, municipalities, utilities and public
institutions.

Sales are channelled through AO’s stores, EDI trading platforms and competency centres,
where customers may place orders and get advice and direction as well as offers over the
phone and through various webshops.
AO’s business model is illustrated below:

Environment
Policy
AO has an environmental policy, which focuses on the continued improvement of the
company’s environmental performance. AO acknowledges that an active consideration for
the environment is important, and through its purchases, investments and other operations
of the business we will help to protect the environment, so that the development of society
may take place in a sustainable way.
We focus on reducing the most significant environmental and climate impacts and has
identified




transport – costs and deliveries to customers through AO stores
waste – reduction and recycling
energy consumption – electricity and heat.

as the most significant.
Read more in the Company’s environmental policy at AO.dk: https://ao.dk/om-ao/fakta-omao/csr/miljopolitik/. (In Danish only).

Environmental initiatives and actions, including risks
AO’s administration and central warehouse in Albertslund are environmentally certified
according to DS/EN ISO 14001. The same also applies to the rental and service functions
and the storage facilities at Herstedvang 6 in Albertslund, and all AO stores.
AO’s environmental objectives for 2016 were defined as:
 The supply of goods to customers through the Company’s stores is to be increased
annually by 6% (related transport costs are to be reduced accordingly).
 The development of transport costs is equal to or less than the development in revenue.
 Total energy consumption at AO’s administration and storage facilities (electricity and
heat) is to be reduced annually by 6%.
 AO recycles more than 70% of its total waste.
In 2016 there will be extra focus on the energy consumption, as AO is in the target group
for the new energy audit imposed on all companies with more than 250 employees. This
means that AO’s stores are to be certified according to ISO 14001 in the spring of 2016.
This will create a new focus on the Company’s total energy consumption.
Every year in June, AO reviews the environmental initiatives and actions made by the
Company in the past year, and new objectives for the coming year are determined.
The results of the review are reported in an environmental statement. The environmental
statement for 2016 is available at: https://ao.dk/om-ao/fakta-om-ao/csr/miljopolitik/. (In
Danish only).
In addition, AO encourages both suppliers and customers to reduce their environmental
and climate impacts. For suppliers, this is done prior to the conclusion or renewal of a
business agreement by means of an environmental assessment of each individual supplier
based on a simple questionnaire. When a business agreement has been concluded, the
supplier commits himself to observe AO’s Supplier Conduct for Suppliers, which is
available at https://ao.dk/om-ao/investor-relations/in-english/company-profile/suppliercode-of-conduct. In addition, see below.
Among other things, AO encourages its store customers to use the “WUPPI” scheme for
the recycling of PVC products.
AO does not have any formalised processes for “due diligence” regarding the environment
but evaluates potential environmental consequences in connection with all new major
investments, new locations, transport methods/patterns, or the like, and include them as
an integral part of the basis for decision.
AO has identified the most significant risks related to the environment and climate as being
energy consumption in the form of electricity and heat, waste and recycling, and transport.
It is therefore not surprising that these three areas have priority in our work to minimise
environmental risks.
Environmental key figures and results for 2016
The Company’s environmental objectives and actions are reported in the annual
environmental statement.

As AO is part of the target group for the new energy audit imposed on all businesses with
more than 250 employees, all AO stores were certified according to ISO14001 in the
spring of 2016.
This has created a stronger focus on the Company’s total consumption of energy, and in
the second half of 2016 an agreement was concluded with EnergiData regarding
registration and control of the energy consumption in the individual AO stores in Denmark.
The registered data will be used to check up on the local consumption of electricity, heat
and water.
A nationwide agreement on waste collection was also concluded in 2016. In addition to the
central warehouse in Albertslund and the logistics centre in Horsens, the agreement
covers all stores. Data will be collected to make the total quantities of waste visible,
including recycled materials, thus facilitating a more detailed and local follow-up.
In the second half of 2016, AO tested a delivery collection system in Køge, where the
customers were able to pick-up ordered goods in the store 24 hours a day. If the concept
involves less direct deliveries to the customers and more or major deliveries to the stores,
it is expected that the concept can contribute to a reduction in total transport costs for both
AO and its customers. The concept will be evaluated in 2017 with a view to implementing it
in all of AO’s stores.
In 2016, the Company achieved the following results:
Transport
 In 2016, there was continued focus on using AO’s stores as a focal point for the
customers to collect pick-up orders, thus enabling the Company to use its transport
capacity more effectively and to reduce the number of direct transports to the
customers. In 2016, the number of pick-up orders increased by 14% compared with
2015. This increase also has to be seen in proportion to a revenue increase of 9%. The
objective for 2016 has thus been achieved.
 In 2016, total transport costs increased by 13%, whereas the increase in revenue
constituted 9 %. The reason is, among other things, a larger share of online orders
combined with a marginal decrease in purchase order sizes (basket size). The objective
for 2016 has therefore not been achieved.
Waste
 In 2016, focus was also on waste separation with a view to recycling as much as
possible of the total amount of waste. Among other things, systematic sorting of
disposable pallets has been established, so that they can be either reused or sold. The
total amount of waste in Albertslund and Horsens declined by 18%. In 2016, 84% (2015:
86%) of the total waste in Horsens and Albertslund was recycled. The Company’s
objective to recycle more than 70% of the total amount of waste generated has
therefore also been achieved in 2016.
Energy consumption
 In 2016, the energy consumption at Rørvang was affected by a major warehouse
renovation which took place during most of the second half of 2016 and involved an
installation of a mini-load system. This meant that large parts of the warehouse were
transformed into a building site, resulting in extra energy consumption. In 2016, the total
energy consumption decreased by 4% compared to 2015, and the goal of a reduction of

6% has therefore not been achieved. The result is, however, considered satisfactory in
consideration of the warehouse renovation.
We are generally satisfied with the results achieved in 2016. In 2017, we will focus on
having waste separation and energy consumption measured in AO’s 49 stores.
Work expectations for 2017
In 2017, our focus on transport, waste, and energy consumption will continue in order to
minimise our environmental and climate impact. We expect that the agreement with
EnergiData regarding the measurement and registration of local energy consumption will
increase our employees’ focus on consumption and contribute to the preparation of action
plans for the reduction of total and local consumption.
In addition, we expect that the nationwide agreement on waste collection will give a total
view of AO’s amount of waste, waste separation, and recycling and be instrumental in
targeting the local performance.
The environmental objectives for 2017 are the following:
Transport:
 The development of product deliveries to customers via our stores is equal to or larger
than the development in revenue.
 The development in transport costs is equal to or less than the development in revenue.
Waste:
 A recycling rate of more than 70% of the total waste generated in our central
warehouse, logistics centre and stores.
 Launching of a benchmarking database on waste and recycled materials for the 49
individual stores.
Energy consumption:
 Total energy consumption in AO’s administration and central warehouse (electricity and
heat) is to be reduced by 6% compared with 2016.
 Disclosure of energy consumption benchmarking data for each individual store. Data on
electricity and heat consumption will be collected from all 49 stores.
 Disclosure of the energy consumption in certain central warehouse and office sections
in order to clarify the relationship between revenue and energy consumption and to
implement energy saving measures.

Social conditions and working conditions
Policy
AO attaches great importance to diversity at all levels. It is company policy to secure that
AO is a good and versatile workplace that promotes equal career opportunities regardless
of gender, age, ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation or political opinion. This applies
both in connection with recruitment and promotion. What matters the most to us is skills,
both human and professional.

In keeping with Danish Act No. 1383 of 23 December 2012 on the introduction of rules
regarding target figures and policies for the gender composition of the supreme
management body and the reporting thereof, the Company has set target figures for the
supreme management body and prepared a policy to increase the proportion of the
underrepresented gender at the Company’s other management levels in Denmark. See
the Statutory Report on the Gender Composition of Management at
https://ao.dk/globalassets/1-om-ao/investor-relations/english/financial-statements/2016/statutoryreport-on-gender-composition-2016.pdf. It is AO’s plan that the gender composition at the

Company’s management levels shall reflect the overall gender composition of the
workforce, both at Board level and at other management levels. In AO’s opinion, it will
strengthen the business and its results in the short run as well as the long run.
AO has no written comprehensive policy regarding social conditions and working
conditions. Management believes that AO´s intentions and policies are communicated to
each individual employee through the daily management, the employee handbook and the
policies contained herein, and the work of the Working Environment Committee. On these
grounds, we believe that there is no need for a comprehensive policy for the area.
Social and employee-related initiatives and actions, including risks
Every day we have great focus on the individual employee’s development and well-being.
It is provided through attentive day-to-day management and annual staff development
interviews, where development on both the personal and professional level, job content
and advancement, and the employee’s relation to and well-being in AO are discussed. On
basis of the above, an individual plan for the individual employee is prepared.
We are aware of the fact that not all have equal opportunities, and we seek to rectify this
through the creation of flex-jobs and jobs on special terms and by offering work ability
testing in cooperation with the local authorities. This makes sense both in relation to our
role in the local community and in relation to those of our employees who no longer have
the opportunity to work on the same terms as before. For the same reason, we have a
senior policy that gives our employees the opportunity, in good time, to plan their
retirement and the content of their last years at work, so that the job is adapted to the
possibilities and wishes of the individual employee.
Workplace assessments are conducted on a regular basis, where both the physical and
psychological environment are in focus. On the basis of these assessments, a
comprehensive plan for the entire company and a more detailed plan for each individual
department are drawn up.
The Working Environment Committee also has strong focus on employee safety. As a
result, there is follow-up on occupational injuries and sickness absence, the inspection
reports of the Danish Working Environment Authority are examined closely and, when
needed, action plans are prepared to comply with enforcement notices, if any.
As the employees are AO’s most important asset and vital to the success and growth of
the Company, the most important risks are naturally associated with working conditions.
AO considers the risk of being unable to retain competent employees and the risk of being
unable to recruit the necessary resources and skills as the largest risks.
AO seeks to respond to this by having strong focus on the development and well-being of
the employees and, as one of the largest distributors in this line of business, by being wellknown and visible in the industry.
Annually, we employ 10-15 trainees in order to make sure that we, at any time, have
skilled employees trained within the industry.

In 2016, AO’s objectives and key figures for the most significant social conditions and
working conditions were as follows:
Training and gender composition:
 Average number of course days: 2.2 days. We want to maintain a high level of
individual competency development. To us it is important that that the employees’ skills
are developed, so that their full potential is used, and their value on the labour market is
strengthened.
 The gender composition at other management levels, not including the Board of
Directors, constitutes 10% women and 90 % men. In the long run, we want that the
gender composition at all management levels shall reflect the overall gender
composition of the Company’s workforce. In our opinion, it will strengthen the activities
of the Company and its results.
Working environment
 Number of occupational injuries per 100 employees: 4.0 occupational injuries, hereof at
least 50% involving less than a day’s absence. We focus a lot on providing a healthy
and secure working environment with focus on the prevention of accidents and injuries.
 Sickness absence: 3%. We want a good working environment with high job satisfaction
and low sickness absence.
 Green “Smileys” from the Danish Working Environment Authority at all locations,
meaning that no enforcement notices have been issued. AO places great emphasis on
the working environment. It is therefore important to us that we meet the rules and
regulations of the Danish Working Environment Authority, and that we do not receive
any enforcement notices.
In keeping with Danish Act No. 1383 of 23 December 2012 on the introduction of rules
regarding target figures and policies for the gender composition of the supreme
management body and the reporting thereof, the Company has set target figures for the
supreme management body and other management levels. See the Statutory Report on
the Gender Composition of Management at https://ao.dk/globalassets/1-om-ao/investorrelations/english/financial-statements/2016/statutory-report-on-gender-composition2016.pdf.
The above-mentioned policies and actions are an integral part of our day-to-day
management/culture and are developed concurrently with AO’s strategies.
Key figures and results for social conditions and working conditions in 2016
In 2016, we have worked on many fronts with social conditions and working conditions. It
has not been possible to measure many of the initiatives, but all have contributed to
securing good working conditions and the well-being of the individual at the workplace.
The following results have been achieved in connection with the measurable initiatives:
Training and gender composition:
 Average number of course days per employee (not including BilligVVS): 2.3 days (2015:
2.2 days). Thus, the number of course days has increased 5% compared with 2015.
The objective has therefore been achieved

 The Company’s gender composition at other management levels, not including the
Board of Directors, constitutes 9% women and 91% men against an overall gender
composition in AO of 18% women and 82% men (2015: other management levels 9%
women and 91% men, and an overall gender composition in AO of 19% women and
81% men). However, the average proportion of women participating in management
courses was 14% in 2016, and we hope that this will have an indirect influence on the
proportion of women at other management levels in the coming years.
Working environment:
 Number of occupational injuries per 100 employees: 3.0 occupational injuries, hereof
47% involving less than a day’s absence (2015: 4.7 occupational injuries per 100
employees, hereof 50% involving less than a day’s absence). In 2016, the number of
occupational injuries was reduced by 35% which is very positive considering the fact
that there was a considerable amount of construction work at the central warehouse in
Albertslund and that the warehouse contained more products than usual due to the
transfer of stock from the logistics centre in Horsens. Both elements have contributed to
clutter, increased traffic and challenges in connection with the separation of walking and
driving traffic. In spite of the above, the objective for the reduction of occupational
injuries has been achieved in 2016.
 Sickness absence: 3.1% (2015: 2.8%). In 2016, sickness absence was negatively
affected by a few employees on long-term sick leave. The objective for 2016 has
therefore not been met.
 We have obtained green “Smileys” from the Danish Working Environment Authority at
all locations. In 2016, we received a single enforcement notice from the Danish Working
Environment Authority, and it was complied with immediately. The objective of not
receiving any enforcement notices has therefore not been met.
We are satisfied that the implemented initiatives and actions in 2016 have resulted in the
fact that the set targets for the average number of course days and the number of
occupational injuries and sickness absence have been achieved in 2016.
Essentially, the gender composition at other management levels is unchanged compared
to 2015. Consequently, we will make a review of the planned actions and initiatives for
2017 with a view to estimating whether further initiatives have to be made in order to
achieve a future gender composition at all management levels that reflects the overall
gender composition of the Company’s workforce.
In 2017, we will closely monitor the working environment, especially in the individual
stores, and make sure that the rules and regulations of the Danish Working Environment
Authority are fully complied with.
Work expectations for 2017
In 2017, our focus on the employees’ well-being and development will continue. Among
other things, a workplace assessment for administration employees in Albertslund was
conducted at the end of 2016, and the information from this assessment is expected to be
used in a concrete action plan for 2017. In addition, workplace assessments are of course
conducted in the individual stores, central warehouse, and logistics centre on a regular
basis.

The objectives for 2017 are the following:
Training and gender composition:
 Average number of course days per employee: 2.2 days. In 2017, there will be
continued focus on individual competency development, so that AO’s high level is
maintained even after the merger with Billig VVS ApS.
 Unchanged gender composition in the Company, but with an increase in the proportion
of women at other management levels, not including the Board of Directors, to 11%
women and 89% men.
Working environment:
 The number of occupational injuries is to be reduced by 10% to 2.7 occupational injuries
per 100 employees.
 Sickness absence is to be maintained at 3%. In 2017, initiatives for the reduction of
sickness absence will be implemented, among other things, by means of a quick followup on employee absenteeism.
 Green “Smileys” from the Danish Working Environment Authority to all locations. No
enforcement notices.

Respect for human rights
Policy
AO wants to comply with current legislation and international conventions regarding
human rights in the countries and local communities where the Company operates.
We have assessed that we only operate in countries where human rights are an integral
part of the countries’ local legislation, and where this legislation is both recognised and
respected by both businesses and the civilian populations.
We have therefore chosen not to have an actual policy for human rights and, in our view,
we do not encounter any direct risks related to human rights.
In our opinion, our present policies and practices regarding working conditions are in
compliance with locally and internationally recognised human rights, and we refer to the
above-mentioned paragraph regarding social conditions and working conditions, where our
policies, values, actions, objectives, risks and results are described in detail.
We are, however, aware of the fact that our trade with suppliers may constitute a potential
risk of abusing human rights primarily in connection with direct and indirect purchases
made from countries where local legislation on the area is not clear, or where such
legislation is not recognised, respected and enforced. On these grounds, we have drawn
up a Supplier Code of Conduct which is described below under the paragraph headed
“CSR and business partners”.

Anti-corruption and bribery
Policy
AO wants to comply with current legislation and international conventions regarding sound
business practice in the countries and local communities where the Company operates
We have assessed that we only operate in countries where rules against corruption and
bribery are an integral part of the countries’ local legislation, and where this legislation is
both recognised and respected by both businesses and the civilian populations. We have
therefore chosen not to have an actual policy for anti-corruption and bribery and, in our
view, we do not encounter any major risks related to corruption and bribery.
We do, however, recognise that the boundaries may be blurred even in a well-regulated
country like Denmark. Consequently, we have internal rules and procedures to ensure
independence from customers and suppliers and to regulate areas like supplier and
customer events, including gifts, and to ensure the compliance with competition legislation
in force.
In 2016, no targets related to anti-corruption and bribery were determined, and no
activities were made. No activities are planned for 2017, but we regularly assess the need
for it.
We are, however, aware of the fact that our trade with suppliers may constitute a potential
risk in relation to corruption and bribery primarily in connection with direct and indirect
purchases made from countries where local legislation on the area is not clear, or where
such legislation is not recognised, respected and enforced. On these grounds, we have
drawn up a Supplier Code of Conduct which is described below under the paragraph
headed “CSR and business partners”.

CSR and business partners
When we trade with suppliers, we are aware of the fact that we may be challenged in
connection with our wishes and policies regarding the environment, social conditions and
working conditions, human rights, corruption and bribery.
In order to obtain an overall picture of AO’s risk in relation to the procurement of goods, we
track, on a regular basis, AO’s purchases by country of origin.
In 2016, AO’s purchases of goods were divided up by country of origin in the following
way:

Other countries
3%
China
8%

Denmark
35%
Denmark
Europe
China
Europe
54%

Other countries

We assess that our risk is relatively limited and that it relates primarily to purchases from
China and other countries outside of Europe, corresponding to approximately 10% of AO’s
purchases from all suppliers.
On these grounds, we have drawn up a Supplier Code of Conduct, which is discussed with
the supplier prior to the conclusion of a business agreement or in connection with the
renewal of an agreement, and which is an integral part of the business agreement.
The Code of Conduct contains provisions regarding the supplier’s and the subcontractors’
compliance with internationally recognised rules on labour standards, human rights,
environment, and bribery and corruption.
The Code of Conduct is adopted by the Board of Directors and is available at:
https://ao.dk/om-ao/investor-relations/in-english/company-profile/supplier-code-ofconduct/.
Through our discussions and our Code of Conduct we hope to inspire and motivate our
suppliers to set objectives and work with CSR through their activities, but as of yet we do
not require any reporting.
In 2017, we will continue to monitor and assess the need for further action in this area.

