Mandatory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility,
cf. the Danish Financial Statements Act, Section 99a
This mandatory report on corporate social responsibility for Brødrene A & O Johansen A/S
is part of the Management’s Review in the Annual Report for 2012 and covers the
accounting period from 1 January to 31 December 2012.
In all of our business activities, AO wants to comply with current legislation and
international conventions in the countries and communities where we operate.
We respect and comply with competition rules, environmental legislation, labour market
legislation, agreements and safety requirements, and other regulations that provide the
framework of how we conduct business. We want to be a responsible company that
supports the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, the
environment and anti-corruption.
Our suppliers are expected to adhere to the requirements of our Supplier Code of
Conduct. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is as an integral part of our supply
agreements, has been prepared to ensure that suppliers to AO exhibit the desired
responsibility. (Our Supplier Code of Conduct is available at AO.dk which is updated on a
regular basis).
AO operates primarily in Denmark, and the greater part of our purchases is made in the
EU. Our employees are our greatest asset, and we have therefore chosen to focus on
work environment issues and the environment in general as the most important areas.
We have a working environment policy and an environmental policy focusing on the
continued improvement of the company’s performance.
Working environment
It is AO’s policy to constantly focus on competent and respectful management, motivation,
development/training and working environment, including
•

developing the skills of employees, so that their potential is being used, and their
value on the labour market is strengthened

•

providing a healthy and safe working environment with focus on the prevention of
accidents and injuries

•

working on diversity and equal opportunities for all staff, regardless of gender, age,
ethnic origin, religion, or the like through, among other things, a professional
recruitment process

•

co-operating with a work environment consultant who acts as a sparring partner,
when work-related tasks have to be solved in the most optimal way

•

preparing a dynamic employment policy which interacts with the development of the
organisation and AO’s strategies. The employment policy reflects the overall
philosophy as well as specific guidelines and practices
having several applicable staff policies that directly affect the working environment,
among these, policies on health and safety at work, drugs and alcohol, ethics,
bullying and harassment

•

•

AO’s policies and practices relating to recruitment, pay, promotion, working
conditions, and skills development are meant to ensure that discrimination is
avoided, and that decisions are made on the basis of objective criteria.

The above-mentioned policies and actions are an integral part of our daily management
activities and culture. However, no specific measurements within each individual area will
be made, so achieved results cannot be described.
The environment
AO acknowledges that an active consideration for the environment is important, and
through our purchases, investments and other operations of the business we will help to
protect the environment. We focus on reducing the most significant environmental impacts
which we have assessed to be transport, waste, and energy and resource consumption.
Our environmental policy is available at the website AO.dk, which is updated on a regular
basis (in Danish only).
The following concrete actions concerning the environment need to be outlined:
•

Our administration and central warehouse in Albertslund and our logistics centre in
Horsens are environmentally certified according to DS/EN ISO 14001. More
information about our environmental certification is available at AO.dk (only in
Danish).

•

Our rental and service functions as well as our new warehouse facilities at
Herstedvang 6 in Albertslund are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001.

•

A number of environmental initiatives have been launched in order to reduce the
consumption of electricity and paper and to collect consumables for recycling.

The company’s environmental management system is audited once a year and new
objectives are determined.
AO’s objective for 2012 was to recycle more than 60% its total waste. In 2012, AO
achieved to recycle 80% and 83% of its total waste at the central warehouse and at the
logistics centre, respectively.
Packaging has been changed from cardboard to plastic boxes that are reused again and
again in connection with supplies from AO’s central warehouse to all stores. In addition,
the investment in a stationary cardboard compactor with a capacity of 7 tons has reduced
the transport costs related to the disposal of cardboard waste by 75%.
The main objectives of the Company’s 2013-2015 environmental policy are defined as
follows:
•

Relative transport costs are to be reduced annually by 6%.

•

Supply of goods to customers through the Company’s stores is to be increased
annually by 6%.

•

At Rørvang total energy consumption, including electricity, heat and fuels, is to be
reduced annually by 6%.

•

The Company is to recycle more than 60% of its total waste.

