CR REPORT

This document is an extract from DFDS A/S’ full Annual Report 2013. the page numbers are identical with the page
numbers in the full Annual Report 2013. The full Annual Report 2013 can be found on www.dfdsgroup.com

DFDS AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (CR)
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INSPIRES VALUE CREATION FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND OUR COMPANY
CHALLENGING TRANSITION TO GREENER
INFRASTRUCTURE IN 2015
New rules regulating the permitted
level of sulphur in bunker fuel are set to
increase fuel costs by 40-50%. The new
rules, coming into force on 1 January
2015, represent a considerable challenge for DFDS and the rest of the ferry
industry in Northern Europe.
In line with our environmental policy,
we support initiatives to make our
world greener – as long as it happens
in a sensible way and on a level
playing field versus our competition,
including other transport modes.
From the outset, we took on the responsibility of adapting our business to
the new rules and contributing to making society greener. We are, however,
responsible for protecting the interests of all our stakeholders and have,
therefore, worked actively to achieve
some mitigation or financial support
concerning the transition to the new
rules – so far without any success.
What is important now is that the rules
are implemented as announced without
any last minute concessions that would
change the level playing field. Ferry
operators, like DFDS and others, who
in good faith have made substantial in-

vestments should be rewarded (over the
course of time) for acting responsibly to
contribute to a greener infrastructure.

experts to be the leading shipping
company when it comes to applying
the scrubber technology.

Our strategy for overcoming the
challenge of the new rules has three
elements: installation of scrubbers
on up to 20 ships at a cost of DKK
750m, preparing customers for the
transition to a higher shipping cost
and analysing requirements for consolidation of routes.

On another positive note, we have
expanded the section on community
work in the report. Supporting local
communities within our network is an
important way for DFDS to give back to
society. The activities also involve voluntary work by our employees, for example when serving homeless people
in Oslo and Copenhagen a Christmas
lunch on board our passenger ships.

For DFDS, and all other ferry operators, the new rules will entail a
substantial negative financial impact.
Prices to customers will increase,
shifting some volumes from sea to
land. We foresee that several ferry
routes in Northern Europe will close
and jobs will be lost across the ferry
industry. Another potential negative
impact is increased road congestion.
The resulting economic impact is, of
course, not a desirable scenario for
our shareholders either.
To adapt and facilitate the transition to
a greener infrastructure, we successfully initiated testing of scrubber technology in 2009, and became a front-runner
by successfully operating a scrubber
onboard one of our ro-ro freight ships.
Today, DFDS is considered by many

Our approach to corporate
responsibility
DFDS is responsible for a large number
of employees and their working conditions, and for health and safety at work.
We area vital part of Europe’s infrastructure as we operate the largest ferry
route network in Northern Europe and
provide transport and logistics solutions
across Europe. We are responsible for
passenger safety, for customers’ freight
and for the environmental impact of
our activities. We are also responsible
for creating a return on shareholders’
investment in DFDS – and much more.

Identifying stakeholders and understanding their needs and requirements
are important priorities in the strategy.
Stakeholders and their expectations
are listed on pages 36–37. CR perspectives are embedded in the organisation
through internal initiatives and action
plans, but also through actively involving stakeholders in relevant working
processes.

We manage our corporate responsibilities through the implementation of
policies and standards. In several areas,
specific targets are set for CR actions
– for example, reducing emissions –
and this year we are introducing customer satisfaction targets.

Managing CR
The CR strategy, and overall goals and
policies, are set by the CR Committee,
which reports to Executive Management. The Committee is composed of
managers with direct responsibility for
implementing CR in business areas and
Group functions. Niels Smedegaard,
CEO, has overall responsibility for the
CR Committee.

The strategy also involves communication of our goals and actions to stakeholders and ongoing improvements to
our CR reporting.

Enjoy the report!
NIELS SMEDEGAARD,
PRESIDENT & CEO

In addition to policies, DFDS lives by
an ethical code of conduct, which acts
as a supplement to the standards of
behaviour to which we aspire, as defined in The DFDS Way.
Our CR strategy
Our CR strategy aims to create and
protect value for all stakeholders,
thereby underpinning DFDS’ position
as a preferred supplier and employer.

The Committee meets at least once
every three months. The intention is
that external stakeholders are invited
to participate in at least two meetings
per year. Twice a year, the chair of the
Committee will report to Executive
Management, and once a year to the
Board of Directors. An important task

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT

CR COMMITTEE

SUSTAINABILITY &
PUBLIC AFFAIRS

HR

for the CR Committee is to promote
the decentralisation of CR to business
areas and Group functions. One Executive Management meeting per year
is focused on opportunities and issues
related to CR.
The CR Committee is responsible for
developing the scope and content of
DFDS’ CR report, including assessing
whether the company should sign up
to, for example, the UN Global Compact,
and whether the report should be audited by external parties. Our processes for
collating and quantifying CR data are
still being developed and we foresee
the scope of our reporting, including
external auditing, will increase over the
coming years.

MARINE
STANDARDS

SALES

PROCUREMENT

Working with stakeholders:
Value creation through CR requires
the involvement of stakeholders. We
define stakeholders as any individual or
organisation that DFDS affects or that
affects DFDS. This includes stakeholders
without ‘voices’, such as the environment and future generations.
Pages 36–37 list DFDS’ stakeholders,
processes for dialogue and collaboration, what is expected of us, and our
actions and plans.
About this report
The information and data in this report on
corporate responsibility concerns DFDS’
activities in Northern Europe, including
the operation of ships, port terminals and

INVESTOR
RELATIONS

COMMUNICATIONS

offices, including the head office in Copenhagen. CO2 data is based on documentation of bunker consumption and energy
and CO2 data from the Logistics business
area and offices. The report does not
include joint venture activities or partner
organisations’ activities. The information in this report meets the amended
requirements of the Annual Accounts Act
of 2009 and is subject to internal data
management systems and audits. The
data covers the period from January to
December 2013. The report has not been
externally and independently evaluated.
The report has been drawn up in accordance with the principles for content and
quality outlined in the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainable Development Reporting Guidelines (version 3.1).

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

4

The table shows our stakeholders, how we cooperate, and progress on CR related activities
Stakeholders

Who are they?

How do we work together?

What do they expect of us?

Progress in 2013

Plans for 2014/2015

•	 Freight customers
•	Passengers

•	 Freight forwarders and hauliers
•	 Producers of heavy industrial goods
•	 Food producers
•	 Producers of consumer goods
•	Retailers
•	 Individuals, families and groups
•	 Coach operators and travel agencies

•	Customer satisfaction surveys,
including online
•	Service calls and contact by letter
before departure
•	Ongoing relationship, including meetings
and follow-up with customers
•	 Town hall customer meetings
•	 Via freight and ticket booking agents

•	Reliability and safety
•	 High frequency and capacity
•	 Easy to work with and travel with
•	 Timely information about changes
•	 Informed employees who solve problems
•	 Proposals for improvements
•	Ongoing adaptation of on-board facilities
to meet customer requirements
•	Clear understanding of customer
requirements

•	Continued roll-out of Customer Focus
Initiative launched
•	 Regular customer satisfaction surveys
•	New passenger sales & marketing
organisation in UK
•	Continuous improvement of online
booking interface
•	 Sales training of over 200 sales managers

•	 Continuation of Customer Focus Initiative
•	Upgrading of InfoBridge, freight booking
and information system
•	Upgrading of the passenger areas on
passenger ships during docking
•	 Continued sales training
•	Cargo Care, further development of
damage prevention
•	 New CRM system
•	Further roll-out of new booking system
for passengers

•	Employees
•	 Trade unions

•	6,000 employees, on shore and at sea
(year-end 2013)
•	 Trade unions
•	 Sailors’ unions
•	 The International Labour Organization (ILO)

•	 Daily management
•	Annual performance and development
reviews
•	 Weekly newsletter for employees
•	Employee survey every two years
(Bearing)
•	 Regular meetings and courses
•	Zoom (management development
programme)
•	Town hall meetings

•	Healthy and safe working environment
•	Reasonable terms and conditions of
employment
•	 Rewarding extra effort
•	 Career development paths
•	 Option of on-the-job learning
•	Ethical and consistent management
and working conditions
•	Diversity

•	Diversity study undertaken
•	 Diversity policy development
•	New development programme for
specialists
•	 Boot camps for managers

•	Promoting safety culture through
ongoing training
•	Introduction of HR system across
the whole Group
•	 Diversity programme
•	 Focus on talent management

Public-sector and
government agencies
(on land and at sea)

•	The International Maritime Organization
(IMO)
•	 European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA)
•	Organisations that investigate accidents
at sea
•	 Working environment agencies
•	 Maritime and coastguard agencies
•	 Environmental agencies
•	 Local authorities
•	 Customs & Excise, immigration departments
•	 Port authorities
•	 Highways agencies
•	 National tourism bodies

•	 Meetings with industry associations
•	 Processes for compliance with regulations
•	Campaigning
•	 Investigation of incidents
•	Meetings with national governments
and ministers
•	 Promoting tourism in regions/countries

•	 Compliance and risk reduction
•	Installation of three sulphur scrubbers
•	Information on security and immigration
•	Development of systematic management
control
of safety processes
•	Accessibility
•	High quality in occupational safety
and health
•	Continuous reduction of environmental
impacts including emissions, introduction
of fuels with low sulphur content, improvement of anti-fouling paint, responsible
scrapping and waste processing

•	Installation of additional sulphur scrubbers
•	Implementation of system for managing
security-related processes

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

5

The table shows our stakeholders, how we cooperate, and progress on CR related activities.
Stakeholders

Who are they?

How do we work together?

What do they expect of us?

Progress in 2013

Plans for 2014/2015

Finance

•	Shareholders including main shareholder,
the Lauritzen Foundation
•	Investors
•	 Financial institutions
•	 Insurance companies and brokers

•	 Quarterly reports
•	 Company announcements
•	 Public conference calls
•	 Investor meetings
•	 International ‘roadshows’
•	 Regular dialogue with analysts
•	Regular dialogue with banks
•	Online updates
•	Regular dialogue with insurance brokers/
companies, company visits

•	
Transparent, consistent and accurate
reporting
•	 Access to management
•	 Responsibility and reliability
•	 Security and active risk management

•	 Investor meetings in Denmark and abroad
•	 Increased free float of the DFDS share
•	 New distribution policy adopted

•	Greater frequency of international
roadshows
•	 Initiation of share buy-back programme

Industry organisations

•	 PSS (Ports Skills & Safety)
•	 PSA (Passenger Shipping Association)
•	The European Community Shipowners’
Association (ECSA)
•	INTERFERRY
•	 Local shipowners’ associations
•	 Classification societies

•	PSS meetings and management
involvement
•	 Meetings of PSA’s Ferry Section
•	PSA meetings on safety, health, hygiene,
the environment and welfare
•	Other informal and formal meetings
with competitors
and trade associations
•	Lobbying/campaigns

•	Reduction of emissions, including the
introduction of fuels with low sulphur
content for ships
•	Continuous improvement of work on
health and safety

•	Installation of three sulphur scrubbers
•	Improved safety performance
•	Tracking of CO2 emissions extended
to logistics activities and offices

•	Meeting new target for reducing fuel
consumption
•	Further develop reporting of CO2 emissions
•	 Additional EURO 5 trucks
•	 Investment in land-based electricity supply

Suppliers

•	 Catering suppliers
•	 Bunker suppliers
•	 Hauliers, rail operators, container shippers
•	Suppliers of spare parts and equipment
for ships
•	Shipyards
•	 Manufacturers of transport equipment
•	 Other suppliers

•	 Ongoing dialogue
•	Audit of major haulage companies and
other providers of carrier services
•	Mentoring programme for smaller
haulage companies

•	 Accessibility and accountability
•	 Safety-management systems
•	 Risk assessments
•	 Reduction of emissions
•	Optimal value, including non-financial
factors

•	Development of vessel sharing agreements •	Implementation
•	 E-auction tools applied
of a new procurement system
•	 ERFx system applied
•	 Contract database
•	 Category management developed

Local communities in
which we operate

•	Neighbours to ports, terminals and routes,
warehouses, offices and other facilities
•	Society in general in local communities

•	 Contact and dialogue via local employees
•	 Newsletters and notification of changes
•	 Charity, sponsorships

•	 Employment opportunities
•	Responsible operations/good
neighbour relations
•	 Noise reduction measures

•	High Five programme
•	Christmas lunch for homeless people
in Copenhagen and Oslo

•	Further develop community with
sponsorship in Denmark

•	 Ongoing dialogue
•	 Membership of organisations
•	Co-operation with specialist organisations,
e.g. Carbon Trust
•	 Various publications and commitments

•	Accessibility
•	Transparent, consistent and accurate
information
•	Environmental management and
performance, including emissions
and responsible scrapping of ships

•	DFDS Connect, social media website
started
•	 Continuous media dialogue
•	 Environmental initiatives (see above)

•	Further development of social media
strategy
•	 Environmental initiatives (see above)

Media, NGOs and others •	Media
•	 NGOs (national/international)
•	 International organisations
•	 The Lauritzen Foundation

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

6

SAFETY AND SECURITY
THE SAFETY OF PEOPLE IS OF PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE TO DFDS

DFDS’ Health, Safety and Environment
Policy, which is reviewed annually by
Management, strives to deliver improvement through active demonstration of

Near-miss reports (average per ship)
Lost time injury frequency (LTIF)
Fatalities

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

64.5
7.0
1

38.5
3.3
0

31.7
2.9
0

13.4
6.6
0

4.8
8.0
0

*	Data excludes the subsidiaries AB DFDS SEAWAYS (Lithuania) and DFDS Logistics AS (Norway)

Our security management is governed
by the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code, which helps
protect against terrorist attacks and
other disruptions. Shipping and logistics
are subject to security inspections
on a regular basis. Audits are held in
conjunction with safety audits. The fleet
regularly takes part in exercises with
different countries’ emergency services,
in order to train staff, exchange experiences and ensure the ships are prepared
for any eventuality.

LTIF ON DFDS PASSENGER AND FREIGHT SHIPS
(LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY)

The following ships recorded no lost time
accidents for 365 days or more by the end
of December 2013

9

Ficaria Seaways
Anglia Seaways
Flandria Seaways
Begonia Seaways
Magnolia Seaways
Lysblink Seaways
Petunia Seaways
Primula Seaways
Dover Seaways

8
7
6
5
4
3

1,337
1,046
1,010
849
847
569
483
408
402

2
1
0
2013

Operational Safety Performance is part
of “THE DFDS WAY”, where the implementation and roll-out of global systems
support the DFDS Operating Model in
striving for continuous improvements
and applying best standards across flags.

2012

Corporate safety and security objectives
and requirements are determined by
national and international regulations.
Under the International Safety Management (ISM) Code, the International Ship
and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS)
and the Maritime Labor Convention
(MLC), all maritime safety measures and
security factors must be reported for all
ships on an ongoing basis, and all ships
must report any incidents on board. This

The ISM code also requires a designated
person ashore to ensure safe operations
and a link between the shore-based
management and the captain and crew
on board. Safety and security audits
are held on all ships in the fleet at least
once a year. Findings are detailed, analyzed, measured and shared to promote
best practice and continuously promote
a strong safety culture on board. In addition, inspections are also carried out as
a separate task during the year.

Shipping incidents reported *

2011

Our approach
Part of DFDS’ customer service is to
ensure systematic implementation
and monitoring of safety standards.
Safety processess build on continuous improvement and sharing of best
practices. In our approach to managing
health and safety (H&S), employees,
passengers, freight customers and
regulators are key stakeholders.

The ISM code aims to ensure that all
relevant standards are respected, and
that safety contingency plans work. This
applies to safety equipment, safe ship
construction, management procedures,
training of crews, drills, document
control, and formal safety monitoring,
structured management reviews and
auditing principles.

commitment and leadership at all levels
in the shipping and logistics businesses.
This means practising what we preach,
where all managers behave in a way that
demonstrates safety and accountability.

2010

Highlights
•	 One fatality recorded in 2013
•	 Several fires on board ships
•	Continuous improvement of safety
and incident reporting
•	Design and implementation of
a global platform to facilitate
Operational Safety Performance
in the Fleet

can be done anonymously under a ‘no
blame’ policy according to Company
Procedures and international safety
guidelines. In our logistics business, we
are guided by industrial and highways
regulations as standard.

2009

SAFETY AND SECURITY – SEA

We monitor the ships’ performance on
external surveys, accidents, incidents
and near-misses, and review the outcomes of regular audits on a monthly basis. This approach involves clear targets
for shipping safety at business unit level.
Our Marine Standards experts, People

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

7

& Ships VPs and CEO meet to formally
review the ships’ safety related performance monthly. Core to this process is to
review all safety and operational related
data collected from ships in readiness for
inspection by maritime authorities, and
such reviews are published to all ships
and key shore-based managers.
We engage on safety and security with
relevant national and international
stakeholders, National Maritime and
Port Authorities, the Danish Shipowners’
Association, British Chamber of Shipping, Nautical Institute, UK Passenger
Shipping Association, International
Chamber of Shipping’s Passenger Ship
Panel and the Nordic Committee for
Passenger Ship Safety (“Nordkompass”).
DFDS employees attend H&S meetings
of Work Councils and work with suppliers to identify safety opportunities.
Training for situations requiring first aid
is also maintained. For example, each
year, hundreds of officers and all crew
are trained to various levels in paramedic care and basic or advanced first aid.
On all passenger and cargo ships, extensive drills are conducted each week
based on around 15 different scenarios
such as marine evacuation. As we have
had three fires on board our ships in
2013, crew training is highly important
to maintain a high safety vigilance.

Important events in 2013
All ships are surveyed and certified according to international, EU and national
legislation, including internal audits
and inspections on safety and security
according to statutory instruments and
company procedures.
In April 2013 all former LD Lines ships
on French flag changed their Safety
Management Systems to the common
platform of DFDS.
During an interim implementation period, all systems were implemented on
board and DFDS A/S was fully certified
and granted a French Document of Compliance in December 2013.
On 20 August 2013, the ILO Maritime
Labour Convention came into force in all
ratifying countries. DFDS manages ships
in several of these countries. The new
convention applies minimum standards
on an international level in terms of
crew welfare, Food and Hygiene Safety
and safety related issues. All ships in
the DFDS fleet flying flags of ratifying
countries were certified in due course,
and well before 20 August 2013. For the
rest of the fleet, managed in countries
that have not ratified the MLC convention, no exceptions are made and they
comply to identical principles as the
ships of the ratifying countries.

In April 2013, a fire broke out in a car
transporter on the car deck onboard
VICTORIA SEAWAYS. The fire was
caused by an electrical malfunction in a
second-hand car onboard the car transporter. The fire was quickly extinguished
by the ship’s drencher system, and no
injuries were incurred.
In November 2013, a fire broke out in
cargo on the weather deck on board
BRITANNIA SEAWAYS. The fire was
caused by leaking aviation fuel ignited
by sparks from shifting cargo due to
extreme weather conditions with significant wave height, above 10 metres.
The fire was brought under control and
eventually extinguished by the ship’s
crew during 10 hours of fire fighting. No
injuries were sustained.
Tragically, an accident on board PATRIA
SEAWAYS in November 2013 cost the
life of one of our crew members. The
accident occurred during repair works in
an elevator shaft, and DFDS immediately informed all ships about the accident
and preliminary precautions to avoid
similar accidents in the future. The
precautions will be evaluated as soon
as the authorities have completed their
report about the accident and the cause
of it has been established. Psychological assistance was provided for the
ship’s crew following the accident. DFDS

has provided the bereaved family with
necessary assistance.

years based on our continuous focus to
improve.

In December 2013, a fire broke out in a
car transporter on the car deck on the
time chartered ship CORONA SEAWAYS.
The fire was caused by an electrical
malfunction in a second-hand car onboard the car transporter. The fire was
extinguished by the ship’s CO2 system
and a fire brigade from shore side. No
injuries were sustained.

Future steps / commitments 2014/15
•	Finalize roll out of global platform
to facilitate Operational Safety
Performance across entire fleet
•	Reduce the number of crew accidents
on board French flagged ships
•	Maintain progress towards zero lost
time accidents across the rest
of the fleet
•	Continue improvement in active
safety related performance
•	Report group-wide safety data in 2014

In December 2013, a fire in a cabin on
board KING SEAWAYS occurred. The
cause of the fire is under investigation
as either arson or an extreme reckless act by a passenger. The fire was
extinguished due a quick response by
the ship’s crew. Two passengers and
four crew members were evacuated by
helicopter due to smoke inhalation.

HEALTH & SAFETY – LAND

In 2013, the Lost Time Injury Frequency
(LTIF)1 was 7.0, up from 3.3 in 2012.
The increase is due to more crew-related accidents on board the French
flagged ships.
Near-misses on average per ship were
recorded at 64.5, up from 38.5 in 2012.
The increase reflects a continued higher
level of awareness on safety issues.
The number of near-misses reported is
expected to keep on rising in the coming

Highlights
•	No fatalities and no events with a
‘high severity’ rating recorded in 2013
•	Zero penalties and zero fines imposed
by regulators
•	Safety performance improved compared to 2012 on a like-for-like basis
•	Group-wide network of safety data
responders providing monthly safety
performance KPI data; allows trend
monitoring and injury event causal
analysis
•	E-learning safety modules has been
piloted in the UK with potential for
application across the Group
•	Regular, periodic engagement with
Port Skills & Safety Ltd.

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

8

A basic risk survey was completed in
2013 to form the basis of a more formalised audit programme for 2014. Risk

Due to the wide variance across operational entities/sites, the reporting
system is both simple so as to not
overburden small low-risk units, and
yet sophisticated enough to allow
the reporting of injury accident detail
allowing generation of causal analy-

ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE MOVING ANNUAL TOTAL 2013
(AFR)
14
12
10
8
4
2
0
AUG
2013

SEPT
2013

DFDS GROUP

OCT
2013

SHIPPING DIVISION

NOV
2013

LOGISTICS DIVISION

DEC
2013
2012 AVERAGE

LOST-DAYS DISTRIBUTION CHART
(EVENTS)
30
25
20
15
10
5

LOGISTICS DIVISION

SHIPPING DIVISION

>201

151-200

101-150

51-100

41-50

0
31-40

Manual handling, slip/trip and
tug-driving have been identified as
major causes of injury accidents (both
lost-time and minor) in 2013 (as in
2012). As these causes are largely
within the control of the individual,
the main thrust of safety performance
improvement in 2013 was the development of an overall safety culture
within the workforce to grow the
concept of personal responsibility for
safety. Safety culture development is
complementary to the overall culture
of The DFDS Way, which among other
things promotes continuous improvement and sharing of best practices. Increased awareness has led to changes

6

21-30

Safety performance data is collated
into a monthly report made available to
management. The reporting system has
been developed to seek increased causal understanding by the identification
of ‘unsafe acts’ and ‘unsafe conditions’.
Data on non-injury ‘accident potential’,
near-misses and hazard observations,
is part of this development. The modified reporting system will begin from
January 2014.

11-20

Reporting
The network of ‘data responders’
covering 55 operational sites continued
to develop in 2013 with the addition
of a port terminal in Gothenburg and
additional Channel ports (Newhaven,
Portsmouth, Le Havre and Dieppe). The
safety performance of newcomers to
the DFDS Group is monitored but only
included in Group safety performance
statistics at the start of each full reporting year. Thus, safety performance for a
Swedish transport company, Karlshamn
Express Group, acquired during 2013
has not been included in 2013 safety
statistics but will be included from 1
January 2014 along with the relocation
of a finance service centre from Belfast
to Poznan.

sis. Causal analysis is used to inform
managers of trends for actioning and to
feed into managers’ ‘safety action plans’
to ensure the proactive management of
safety.

4-10

The national and international safety legislation applicable across the
DFDS Group has a common basis in EU
Legislation allowing an internal safety
management standard to be developed
for application within the DFDS Group’s
‘Dry’ activities based on a UK model of
safety management. The system is detailed in a Safety Framework Document,
a guidance document providing a model
for safety management throughout
‘dry’ activity (port terminals [freight
and passenger operations], warehouses
and offices). Internal auditing has been
performed on a risk-prioritised basis
using the Safety Framework Document
to assess compliance; the audit programme will continue in 2014, again, on
a risk-prioritised basis.

rating factors included annual safety
performance, previous audit history
and the risk profile (e.g. higher-risk port
terminal, lower-risk office activity). The
audit programme commenced in the
last quarter 2013 and will be continued
into 2014.

0-3

DFDS’ Safety Management System
Safety management continues to be operated by the local management teams
of each individual operating entity to
maintain flexibility and proportionality
of response based on risk. Thus, more
safety controls are operated for higher
risk activity (port terminals) than lower
risk activity (offices), e.g. formalised
inspection regimes only operated on
higher risk sites.

DFDS GROUP

	Definition: Lost-Time Injury Accident Frequency Rate (LTA-AFR) is the frequency of lost work days per one million man-hours (exposure hours). A lost work-day is time lost from an
injury which results in an individual being unable to return to work on a scheduled work shift on the day following the injury.

1

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

9

SAFETY PERFORMANCE LTAS 1 2013

(2012 data for comparison)
DFDS
Element

2012
Actual LTAs
(Jan-Dec)

Headcount, dry
(Ann. Av.)

Man Hours
(est.)

Annualised AFR
‘less is more’
Ideal is zero

22
(17)
26
(22)
48
(39)

878
(857)
2076
(1,578)
3338
(2,821)

1,777,072
(1,727,712)
4,201,824
(3,181,248)
6,756,112
(5,687,136)

12.38
(9.84)
6.19
(6.92)
7.10
(6.86)

Logistics Division
Shipping Division
DFDS Group 2

	 Lost-Time Injury Accident Frequency Rate
	DFDS Group consists of (i) Logistics Division, (ii) Seaways Division and (iii) Group Services
(Headquarters function & FSC)

1

in attitudes and behaviour which have
manifested themselves in improved
safety performance in 2013.
Safety performance
The DFDS Group of 2013 is different
from that of 2012; addition of a port
terminal in Gothenburg and additional
Channel ports (Newhaven, Portsmouth,
Le Havre and Dieppe) complicate a
direct performance comparison, yearon-year.

2

INJURY SEVERITY (LOST-DAYS) 2013

(2012 data for comparison)

DFDS
Element

LTAs

Logistics Division
Shipping Division
DFDS Group

*	 33% reduction in total lost-day tally

22
(17)
26
(22)
48
(39)

Actual
Lost-Days
250
(344)
333
(528)
583 *
(872)

Average LostDays
per LTA
11.36
(20)
12.81
(24)
12.14
(22)

% Reduction
in Average
Lost-Days
Per LTA
43%
47%
45%

The key safety performance indicator
used is ‘Lost-Time Injury Accident Frequency Rate’ which provides a single
‘headline’ statistic to allow direct safety performance comparison (i) across
all DFDS ‘Dry’ activity and (ii) between
DFDS ‘Wet’ and ‘Dry’ activity and also
(iii) with external organisations (benchmarking).
Overall, safety performance on a likefor-like basis improved in 2013 with
AFR falling from 6.86 in 2012 to 6.22
in 2013.
The Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
chart uses 2012 safety performance
data as a baseline for performance comparison/improvement target setting. The
2013 Group AFR of 7.1 closely matches
the 2012 AFR of 6.86 despite the sig-

nificant changes to the Group. The 2012
reference baseline will continue to be
referenced in 2014, along with a 15%
improvement target.
Importantly, injury severity was
greatly reduced across the expanded
Group in 2013. ‘Reportable’ injuries
fell from 74% to 52% and average
lost-days-per-injury-accident fell from
22 days to 12 days with 30 out of 47
(64%) reporting operational entities
logging ‘no injuries’ at all (representing
28% of average headcount).
Data on minor injury accidents is also
collated centrally whilst detail of
Accident Potential (non-injury events,
i.e. near-misses and hazardous observations) is maintained within individual
operational entities. The Group reporting
system has been modified to collate general data on accident potential in 2014.
The main causes of injury accidents are
manual handling and slip/trip; these two
causes combined account for 45% of
all injury accidents. Injuries caused by
both manual handling and slip/trip (and
hand-tool usage and tug driving) are
largely due to human factors (individual
mistakes and errors) by individuals,
who have a large element of personal
responsibility for safety.

Thus, whilst improved performance
shows that safety culture has improved, this has to be continued in
2014 to reduce the number of injury
accidents, i.e. a general improvement
of personal safety attitudes and behaviours, rather than improvement to the
‘hardware’ of existing safety management systems/practices being required.
This will be addressed in 2014 by the
continued provision of specialist safety
training and increased auditing.
Safety training in 2013
A ‘Safety Workshop’ was held early in
2013 (6th March, at Immingham Terminal, UK) for the network of safety data
responders to assist in developing the
homogeneity of the safety management
system across the Group. It also aimed
to develop data responders into the role
of ‘site safety champions’ as part of the
overall development of safety culture
within the DFDS Group.
A two-day insurance conference was
held in October 2013 hosted by Tyser
Insurance Brokers and the TT Club;
this referenced the functional overlap/
integration between the two functions of safety and insurance, with
several attendees being both safety

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

10

data responders and insurance claims
processors.
Safety E-training was used extensively in the UK in 2013 with 570 users
completing a total on 4,531 safety
modules; subjects varied but included
Risk Assessment, Manual Handling, Slip/
Trips, Fire Safety and Display Screen
Equipment. Roll-out of this system of
‘core’ modules is planned for Denmark
and The Netherlands during early 2014,
with Germany and France following.
This methodology provides a very
flexible, resource-effective approach
to safety training. Supported by the
provision of short, in-house, training
courses on a variety of safety topics,
such as risk assessment and event
investigation, made available as a form
of mentoring to personnel to assist in
developing skills in operating the Group
safety management system.
DFDS has the capacity for in-house specialist safety training with four qualified
trainers, three at Immingham and one at
Dover, for the delivery of IOSH (Institution of Occupational Safety & Health)

Managing Safely training. This is high
quality, externally approved, specialist
safety training.
In 2013, the Immingham Seaways
Terminal delivered 4-day IOSH Managing Safety courses to 51 managers and
1-day IOSH Working Safely courses to
230 personnel. This training programme
will continue in 2014 until all personnel have received the requisite type of
training.
Specialised IMDG (International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code) code
training is also provided in-house.
Next steps/commitments 2014
•	Reporting to be extended to capture
accident potential for causal analysis
•	Risk-prioritised auditing programme
to continue
•	Roll-out programme for on-line
training modules
•	Support improvement actions at
individual sites based on causal
analysis
•	15% improvement target from
2013 performance level has been
set for 2014

COMBINED INJURY CAUSAL ANALYSIS (LTAS & MINOR)

Cause
‘E’ Manual Handling
‘F’ Slip/Trip
‘T’ Tug Driving
‘D’ Struck something fixed/stationary
‘B’ Struck by a moving/falling object
‘O’ Other
‘G’ Fall from height
‘C’ Struck by a moving vehicle
‘N’ Handtool
‘A’ Contact with moving machinery
‘H’ Trapped by collapse/overturn
‘M’ Injured by an animal

LTAs
(48 Total)

Minors
(118 Tot.)

Combined
(166 Total)

12 (25%)
10 (21%)
12 (25%)
0 (--)
3 (6%)
4 (8%)
4 (8%)
3 (6%)
0 (--)
0 (--)
0 (--)
0 (--)

29 (25%)
23 (19%)
10 (8%)
16 (14%)
12 (10%)
10 (8%)
3 (3%)
4 (3%)
5 (4%)
4 (3%)
1 (1%)
1 (1%)

41 (25%)
33 (20%)
22 (13%)
16 (10%)
15 (9%)
14 (8%)
7 (4%)
7 (4%)
5 (3%)
4 (2%)
1 (1%)
1 (1%)

SAFETY CULTURE DEVELOPMENT AS PART OF THE DFDS WAY

The DFDS Way operating model

Safety Culture

Customer Driven

Customers want to use reputable organisations; this requires
good Health & Safety practices and records

Continuous Improvement

SMS (Safety Management System) drive is to zero injury
accidents and healthy workforce

Best Practice

Performance comparison identifies good practice for
promoting best practice between business areas within the
Group

Leveraging Scale

Group-wide SMS creates supportive network of safety
advisors replacing isolated individuals

Performance Culture

Safety culture requires individuals to change their existing
attitudes and behaviours; DFDS is becoming a learning
organisation

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

11

PEOPLE
OUR PEOPLE ARE ESSENTIAL IN BUILDING AND SUSTAINING OUR SUCCESS

The purpose of the HR activities we
conduct in DFDS is to support the
business in making the right decisions
when it comes to recruitment, employee
& management development, talent
spotting, performance management,
compensation & benefit and organisational efficiency. In this manner, HR
contributes to the continued growth and
development of DFDS.
Diversity
In February 2013 we announced our
policy for Diversity & Inclusion. Our
value proposition is:

Our target for female representation on
our board of directors, excluding employee elected members, is a minimum
of 33% which is achieved with current
composition. We are planning to further
increase the number of women in senior
management positions during the next
couple of years.
As a direct continuation of our Diversity
& Inclusion policy, we employed a HR
intern to analyze gender diversity in
DFDS. The project consisted of data
collection, in-depth interviews with
both women and men in DFDS as well
as focus group sessions, all aimed at
gaining a better understanding of what
drives our female employees in DFDS.
Project objectives were to address the
issue of a relatively small number of
females in DFDS’ management group;
to present an overview of the current
status of gender diversity among DFDS’

The data show that women form a total
of 28% of DFDS’ workforce, but only
form 10% of all employees on higher
management levels (Executive Vice President, Vice President and Director level).
Some of the findings from the project
are that, when we employ directly into
a management position, it is more likely
to be a male than a female; male employees with shorter seniority are more
likely to reach higher management levels than female employees; the number
of male employees with long seniority
(>15 years) is much higher than female
employees. In 2014, we will act on the
findings to move closer to our goal of
employing a diverse workforce.
Employee Engagement Survey
In November, we launched our Employee Engagement Survey – Bearing
– with access for all DFDS employees
to participate. Bearing is important to
analyse where we are doing well and
where we can improve in order to continuously improve as an organization.
The response rate was 76%, which was
a slight increase from 2011.

DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES
ON LAND AND SEA
(NO. OF EMPLOYEES)

AVERAGE EMPLOYEES PER COUNTRIES, 2013
(NO. OF EMPLOYEES)

6,000

7,000
6,000

5,000

5,000
4,000

4,000
3,000

3,000

2,000
2,000

1,000
0

1,000

GERMANY / FRANCE / ITALY
0

BALTIC COUNTRIES / RUSSIA/FINLAND

2013

DFDS will at all times seek to ensure we
have the right candidate for a position
regardless of gender, age, religion or
ethinicity.

employees with emphasis on our target
group ‘Women in DFDS’ and to suggest
how DFDS should work with gender
diversity in the future in order to reach
our goals on diversity.

2012

HR in DFDS
DFDS’ results and our employees’
competences and commitment are
tightly connected – we cannot have one
without the other. Our employees are
therefore the essence of The DFDS Way.
It is vital for DFDS’ continued development to be a preferred employer that
attracts and retains employees in all
kind of jobs, in all the countries where
we have activities.

We will lead an international and
competent workforce that consistently
understands our customers’ needs.
A workforce that shows passion and
thrives in an environment with inclusive
behaviours

2011

Highlights
•	6,000 employees in 20 countries
•	New Employee Engagement Survey
– Bearing
•	Sales Training completed for over
200 sales managers
•	 New analysis of diversity

UK / IRELAND
HOLLAND / BELGIUM

LAND

SWEDEN / NORWAY

SEA

On an overall level, the survey
showed that DFDS is a good place to
work. This is reflected by a score of
5.3 out of 7 for staff satisfaction and
motivation, although slightly lower
than in 2011. Naturally, we would
always like to register increasing
satisfaction, but scores are impacted
by the level of challenges in a given
period. The recession in Europe in
2012 and 2013 was challenging for
DFDS and many operational adjust-

DENMARK

ments have been made in this period.
In this perspective, a score above five
is acceptable.
Our primary concerns are directed
at the few areas scoring below five.
These are the areas where improvement is required and the report is useful in pinpointing where our resources
should be spent.

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

12

Talent and capability development
During the year our employees continued to perform at a high level. We
are committed to helping our people
perform at their best and achieve their
full potential through ongoing training
and development. People review and
agree on development objectives during their annual appraisal with their
manager. We continue to develop and
strengthen our internal training programmes, such as ZOOM (leadership
programme) and FOCUS (specialist
programme).
Continued growth of our leadership
pipeline and focus on succession planning are important for DFDS’ future development. Hence, one of our priorities
for 2014 is to design and implement
an internal programme for our High
Potentials. The participants for this
programme are talented employees
with a potential to grow, eventually,
into senior management positions. As
a natural derivation of this, we aim to
conduct a more structured approach to
succession planning in DFDS. An identification process of the development
needs of successors will be established
in H1 2014.
Based on the analysis of required needs,
a structure of relevant career paths and
development initiatives will be determined and designed.

To ensure relevant development for the
level of Vice Presidents and above, a
process of developing a programme will
begin in 2014. The programme will be
launched during H2 2014.

In addition, an important area of focus
is to meet and comply with internationally recognised human rights. A policy
to support DFDS’ commitment not to
violate such rights is under preparation.

We have implemented the “DFDS Way
of Selling” during 2013. This requires
further training and coaching throughout
2014 and will primarily be done at local
destinations, including both sales representatives and managers. Furthermore,
centralized training will be offered twice
a year (February and October) to new
employees.

In 2013, with one exception, no fines,
lawsuits or breaches of rules were
registered in the HR area.

In 2013 we hired the second batch
of Shipping & Logistics trainees.
We now have 11 trainees in our
pool, who all are located in DFDS
businesses across the group. We
will continue to hire young trainees
into the company. DFDS is now also
approved as a place of education for
Danish waiters and makers of Danish
open sandwiches.
Employment policies and
employee relations
Our employment policies are developed to reflect local, legal, cultural and
employment requirements. We aim to
be recognized as an employer of choice
and therefore seek to maintain high
standards and good employee relations
wherever we operate.

Local communities
Our UK Apprentice Scheme (Seafarers)
has turned out to be an extremely positive project, as apart from generating
a high level of interest in the local
community, it received national news
coverage of the shipping community. The scheme is seen by industry
experts as ‘setting the standards’ in
seafarer training and making a real
attempt to regenerate the British
Merchant Navy. Out of the six original
candidates, four are on track to complete their EDH (Efficient Deck Hand)
Tickets in January 2014.
Further to this, a major ‘side benefit’
is an improvement in morale, and
increased engagement and commitment
from our existing workforce on board
as they recognise the Apprenticeship
Scheme as a firm example of DFDS
“walking the walk” – when we talk
about our commitment to both the
British Flag and British Seafarers.

It has considerably enhanced DFDS’ profile in the local community, leading to
a substantial increase in the number of
applications for our Seasonal Catering
Crew for 2014 as many people had read
in the newspaper that DFDS is a good
place to work.
And it doesn’t stop here. In January
2014, the scheme will be expanded to
include Engine Rating Apprentices and
at the end of 2014 another two-year
programme for an additional six deck
apprentices will be initiated. The result
of these initiatives is that for every retirement over the coming years, a newly
qualified Able Bodied Seafarer Deck or
Engine hand will be waiting in the wings.
When we seek to attract new entrants,
we cannot promise a job for life in DFDS.
We say: come to DFDS and we can start
you on the path of a Career for Life.
Having gained any one of our Ratings,
apprentices can, if they have the right
competence and aptitude, become a
Captain or Chief Enginer within a space
of 15 years. This is made possible
through the long-standing Rating to
Officer conversion courses that are available in Nautical Colleges around the UK.

HR organisation: People & Ships
Responsibility for HR lies with People
& Ships. People & Ships is responsible
for employees and human-resource
development in both the Shipping and
Logistics divisions, as well as in the
central functions, including Technical
Organisation and operating ships.
Employees at sea and on land are subject to a number of collective-bargaining agreements that vary according to
seniority and rank/pay grade and under
which flag a ship is sailing.
HR and CR work is co-ordinated by
DFDS’ Director of Environment &
Sustainability, who is chair of the CR
Committee and who reports to the
Executive Vice President for People &
Ships. This ensures high-quality health
and safety management at sea and on
land in accordance with The DFDS Way.
Future steps/commitments 2014/15
•	 Align HR processes across the Group
•	Further development of internal
training programmes
•	 Implement diversity policy
•	Report on diversity targets and
progress
•	 Create career paths for employees

Looking ahead, in 2014 we intend to
explore the development of a European-wide DFDS Apprenticeship scheme
– aiming to attract bright young people
into all areas of our business at the very
ground level.

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

13

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AT DFDS WE VALUE CLOSE CONTACT AND CO-OPERATION WITH THE COMMUNITIES OF WHICH WE ARE A PART.
WE AIM TO SUPPORT PEOPLE AND ACTIVITIES IN VARIOUS WAYS BY ENGAGING AND CONTRIBUTING ON MANY
LEVELS TO THE COMMUNITIES WE ARE ASSOCIATED WITH
Inspiration from the Lauritzen
Foundation
In our community work, we are inspired
by our major shareholder, the Lauritzen
Foundation, that contributes funds
back to society every year. Support
is given to both cultural and social
activities, including one of Denmark’s
most prestigious acting awards. Social
initiatives include helping people in
need in developing countries, and in
2013 special assistance was granted
to Philippine employees of DFDS and J.
Lauritzen whose families had suffered,
and are still suffering, as a result of a
devastating storm in November 2013.
DFDS likewise supported Philippine
colleagues whose families were in
acute need with immediate cash
support and leave to go home and help
their families.
In total, the Lauritzen Foundation annually donates around DKK 25m.
Employee welfare
In partnership with a Danish union, we
have established a joint foundation to
provide financial support to employees
enabling them to work part-time if they
are unable to work full-time for health

reasons. DFDS also actively participated
in the ensuing public debate about the
Danish welfare system that this socially
innovative agreement prompted, in
order to share our experiences with society and promote social responsibility
through collaboration between private
companies and unions.

a seat on the Danish government’s
advisory committee for corporate social
responsibility, where we can share our
experiences and contribute to developing social initiatives.

Job creation for young criminals
DFDS is engaged in a special project
that aims to employ young people with
criminal records in normal jobs. We
co-operate with the High Five project,
which organises these partnerships, and
at any given time we employ about 10
young people on our ships and in our
main office through this co-operation.
The aim is to help these young people
back to a normal life, and there has been
a very high success rate of about 80%
for those employed by DFDS. As our
shipping operations constitute a working environment that fits well with the
High Five programme, we have taken a
leading role: Henrik Holck, EVP of DFDS’
People & Ships Division, has stepped in
as chairman of High Five.

•	Taking a leading role in a joint UK
project to create apprenticeships
targeting a career at sea for young
people. This has contributed to the
creation of new training programmes
and jobs in the area around Dover
where unemployment is high and job
prospects for young people are bleak.
This initiative has been acclaimed
both by unions and the public. Six apprentices are currently being trained
and the project will continue in the
years to come
•	Serving free Christmas lunches for
homeless people onboard our passenger ships in Oslo and Copenhagen,
in close co-operation with other
charitable organisations
•	A project to offer travel worth DKK
60,000 to a national charity fundraising day in Denmark for projects in
Asia and Africa. In partnership with

As a result of these and other social
initiatives, DFDS has been awarded

We also implement social initiatives at
local or regional level, including:

a Danish radio station, the travel
offers were sold on the radio for DKK
245,000, which was added to the
national funding result
•	Sponsoring local events such as DFDS
Seaways’ annual free transport of a
Christmas tree from Norway to the
UK, where it is placed in Trafalgar
Square in London
•	Sponsoring local sports events
throughout the company
•	Arranging an event for Children in
need from the Ijmuiden region, in
collaboration with the Dutch food
aid organisation,on our ship Princess
Seaways in Ijmuiden
•	DFDS’ Channel business area sponsored the Polish Festival in London

•	The crew on King Seaways collected
money for victims of the typhoon in
the Philippines
•	Newcastle employees donated toys
to a hospital
•	 Blankets donated to the Philippines
•	A DFDS team in Cuxhaven helped
raise EUR 5,000 in a charity dodgeball tournament to support local
children in need
•	Comic Relief
•	 Children in Need
•	 Movember (Men’s Cancer Charity)
•	Christmas Jumper day will be help to
raised money for the Royal Lifeboat
Society in Dover.

Many other local initiatives including co-operation with local people
who want support or help for local
initiatives such as concerts, meetings
or charity projects where a trailer is
needed as a stage, complimentary
transport or funding. In addition to the
company’s activities, many employees throughout the group undertake
their own initiatives to raise funds for
charity such as:

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

14

ENVIRONMENT
DFDS SHOULD BE RECOGNISED AS AN ENVIRONMENTAL LEADER IN OUR SECTOR. FOCUSED ON REDUCING
EMISSIONS, A RESPONSIBLE RECYCLING POLICY AND, IN PARTNERSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS, CONTRIBUTING
TO EFFECTIVE AND CONSIDERED DEVELOPMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
Highlights
•	On track to reduce bunker consumption by 5% in 2017
•	Strategy and plans for transition to
fuel with lower sulphur content in
2015 are in place
•	Consolidated measurement of nonship related CO2 emissions initiated
• N
 on-ship related CO2 emissions
amount to less than 10% of total
emissions
Our approach
DFDS’ environmental work is governed
by our environmental policies, which
have been drawn up by the company’s
management and approved by the
Board of Directors.
The framework for environmental work
and reporting is driven and managed by
DFDS’ CR Committee, which is chaired
by the company’s Director of Environment & Sustainability. Day-to-day
environmental initiatives are primarily
driven by the Technical organisation
and by the Environment & Sustainability
department. Both departments are part
of the People & Ships organisation.
The work is also driven by local
initiatives and individual departments

and employees according to The DFDS
Way’s goals of continuous improvement
and sharing of ‘Best Practices’.
DFDS’ environmental report covers initiatives both at sea and on shore.
At sea
The work to reduce fuel consumption
and therefore CO2 emissions at sea
consists of three main focus areas:
	
A: The interface between
ship and shore
This involves sailing plans, arrival and
departure times, coordination between
ship and shore on arrival and departure,
load planning and stevedoring, etc. The
aim is to ensure that the ship spends
as little time as possible in port with a
view to spending as much time as possible at sea so that speed can be lowered
and fuel consumption reduced.
B: Technical optimisation
Technical optimisation covers e-navigation, including IT programmes, which plan
optimal sailings on the basis of detailed
information about the ship and route plus
continuous information about current,
water depth, wave direction and height,
wind, optimisation of the ship’s trim, etc. It

also includes the optimisation of engines,
use of more energy-optimised propellers
and rudders, cleaning the bottoms of
ships and saving energy consumption on
board. This covers hundreds of initiatives
for pumps, heating, lighting, etc.
C: Behaviour on board
Individual employees and teams can
significantly influence energy consumption through their behaviour on board.
There has already been a significant
change in attitude, resulting in every individual having a target of contributing
to a reduction in energy consumption to
a greater degree.
Laws and regulations
Shipping’s environmental work is
controlled by international, national and
regional conventions and environmental
legislation which are continuously being
approved and implemented for shipping.
For DFDS, this particularly involves
conventions and legislation introduced
by the United Nations’ International
Maritime Organization, the EU and governments of individual countries. The
majority of the regulations which are
of significance for shipping’s efforts to
limit pollution from ships are part of the
so-called MARPOL Convention.

The MARPOL Convention regulates the
use of environmentally hazardous substances, the handling and discharge into
the marine environment of potentially
environmentally damaging substances
(for example ordinary waste water, water containing oil or ballast water), plus
emission of potentially environmentally
damaging substances such as CO2, NOx
and sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere
from ships’ engines.

Ashore
Legislation regulating land-based activities is mainly national, parts of which
are derived from EU directives.

Furthermore, the so-called AFS Convention controls the use of anti-fouling
bottom paints on ships.

Ashore, we are obliged to comply with
legislation regarding climate change,
for example Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) in the United Kingdom – a
government scheme to improve the
energy efficiency of medium-sized and
large energy consumers. We work in a
targeted manner to improve the energy
efficiency of buildings, facilities and
equipment in ports and terminals.

The routines and processes required in
order to comply with these regulations
are described and documented in the
company’s ISM (International Safety
Management) safety control system,
a complete, updated edition of which
is available on all ships and which is
maintained and updated by the Marine
Standards Department.
The company and the individual ships
are continuously audited, both by the
authorities and internally, in order
to ensure that the regulations and
necessary routines are known and
complied with.

Environmental efforts ashore are
partly initiated by a department for
Environment & Sustainability in the
People & Ships Division. There are
also initiatives implemented by local
management.

As part of our customer service, the
logistics activities in Ghent, Gothenburg,
Belfast and Hamburg are ISO 14001
and/or ISO 9001 certified. DFDS Seaways PLC is ISO 9001 certified.
Environmental risks
The most important commercial risk
factors are changes to environmental

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

15

regulations and rises in energy prices.
The environmental policy includes
guidelines for analysing the costs linked
to new regulations and their implementation, plus the costs of any solutions.
Legislation on the sulphur
content of bunkers
The introduction in 2015 of IMO and EU
rules limiting acceptable fuels to those
containing 0.1% sulphur within the specific control area of the Baltic Sea, North
Sea and the English Channel represents
a special risk.

place limits on the use of scrubbers,
including the size and weight of the
scrubbers, the complexity of the installation and the effect on stability such
installations may have and age of the
ship. There is ongoing dialogue with the
EU regarding financial support for these
substantial environmental investments.
Alternative fuels are also being considered. Liquid natural gas (LNG) may be
suitable for certain new ships, but the
supply chain, price and practical implementation require further investigation
and development.

DFDS is following an innovative course
to meet this challenge and will install
a number of scrubbers on up to 20
ships. The expected investment is
approximately DKK 750m in the period
2013–2017. The scrubber removes
sulphur dioxide and, to some extent,
particulate matters from ships’ exhaust
gases. In the course of the summer of
2013, scrubbers were installed on three
freight ships and scrubber installation is
planned for a further seven ships during
2014. Work is being done in parallel to
these initiatives at both national and international level to clarify the outstanding points in legislation regarding the
certification and use of scrubbers.

Requirement for cleaning
of ballast water
In December 2013, the IMO approved
new regulations for the cleaning of
ballast water to safeguard against the
spread of invasive species via ballast
water. The convention is expected to
be ratified in the course of 2014, after
which the rules will come into force
12 months later. We therefore expect
these to come into force in the autumn
of 2015. Like the new sulphur regulations, the ballast water convention will
involve significantly increased expenditure for shipping, including for DFDS,
over the next few years.

Despite the good results on FICARIA
SEAWAYS, where the first scrubber was
installed in 2009, a range of factors

The final rules on ballast water management are likely to include some exemption options. To what extent DFDS’

tonnage can qualify for exemptions is
uncertain and a worst case scenario
thus includes installing ballast water
management systems on the entire
fleet.

AVERAGE FUEL CONSUMPTION OF THE DFDS FLEET
(FUEL CONSUMPTION (G/GT/NM))

CO2
Rules regarding obligatory reporting on
CO2 emissions for ships, the so-called
MRV regulation (Measuring, Reporting
and Verificating), are being drawn up
under the auspices of the EU. Even
though discussions about which ships
will be subject to the rules are continuing, we expect all DFDS ships to be
covered by this reporting requriement
from 2018. DFDS actively participates
in various working groups covering the
final wording of the rules and reporting
formats.

5.6

6.2
6.0
5.8

5.4
5.2
5.0
JAN
2009

2010

2011

2012

DEC
2013

FLEET BUNKER CONSUMPTION

2012 is the new baseline year for DFDS’ targeted reduction of bunker consumption by 5% over the
next five years, 2013-2017. Average consumption increased in 2013 by 0.4% due to the addition
of ships from LD Lines in Q4 2012. Adjusted for these ships, the fleet’s average consumption was
reduced by 1.9% in 2013 compared to 2012.
2012
Average bunker consumption, g/GT/Nm
Change vs 2012, %

2013

5.38

5.40  
0.4

PROGRESS IN 2013
CO2 intensity
Measuring a company’s total CO2 emissions is a difficult process, not least for
a company as complex as DFDS. We
have begun exploring a suitable system
which is capable of measuring CO2
from activities as diverse as ships, port
terminals, warehouses, cargo carrying
equipment and offices.

(bunkers). The total absolute consumption changes over time, in line with
changes in the fleet. In order to be able
to monitor the trend on a transparent
and objective basis, consumption is
therefore measured in grams per gross
ton (GT) per nautical mile (g/GT/nm).

The main source of DFDS’ CO2 emissions is the ships’ consumption of fuel

In 2012, the DFDS Group’s total CO2
emissions were approximately 1.9 mil-

lion tons, of which approximately 92%
came from the ships. The total figure for
2013, including non-ship emissions, is
not yet compiled.
On 1 October 2013, France introduced a
legal requirement to state CO2 emissions when selling transport services.
DFDS has of course implemented
systems so that these requirements are

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

16

fulfilled, both for our shipping and our
logistics activities.
It is, however, a concern that national
authorities introduce their own regulations in this area, when work is being
done on corresponding regulations at
EU level, for example the MRV regulations mentioned previously. The MRV
regulation will determine the measuring
and reporting methods for all shipping
activities in the EU and is expected to
be approved so that 2018 becomes the
first reporting year.
In the spring of 2013, CROWN SEAWAYS
became the first ship in the DFDS fleet
to be issued with the International
Energy Efficiency Certificate by DNV.
Target for reduction in CO2 emissions
DFDS’ target of reducing the ships’ CO2
emissions in the period 2007–2012
by 10% was achieved in 2012. A new
target of a further 5% reduction for
the period 2013–2017 has now been
set. In this context, it is a paradox
that the measures which are required
to comply with the forthcoming SOx
emissions requirements will have a
direct negative effect on a ships’s CO2
footprint emissions.
In 2013, we have made progress on
setting a specific target for CO2 emissions
from activities other than ships. This work
is expected to be completed in 2014.

Environmental improvements
to ships’ activities
In 2013, average bunkers consumption
in g/GT/Nm was 1.9% lower than in
2012 adjusted for the addition of ships
from LD Lines in Q4 2012.

completed, so the entire fleet of own
trucks now conforms to the EURO 5
standard. In the course of the year, a
number of electric-powered vans have
been acquired for local transport in
Denmark. In addition, at Immingham the
following measures have been adopted:

In 2013, the Port of Gothenburg approved ships equipped with scrubbers
to be treated equally to ships fuelled
by MGO alone. This implies that ships
installed with scrubbers are now also
entitled to environmental discounts on
port fees. Four of DFDS’ ships, which
already have scrubbers installed, will
therefore benefit from this in 2014.

•	Invested in Telematic systems for
monitoring fuel consumption on the
managed truck fleet
•	Reduced the top speed to 85 km per
hour for trucks
•	Use of Telematic system information
to decide which lorries are best at
specific operations

Many initiatives have been implemented or extended in the course of 2013,
including:

These initiatives are expected to collectively reduce diesel consumption by
approximately 5%.

•	Installing energy-optimised propellers
and rudders on a range of ships
•	Frequency control and optimising
ventilation on ships
•	 Energy-saving lighting

Our fleet of trailers is also being upgraded continuously. The fleet of UK-based,
extra-long, environmentally friendly
trial trailers is being increased and,
similarly, 100 extra “Huckepack” trailers
have been acquired, which are particularly suitable for combined road and rail
transport.

Improvements to activities ashore
Ashore, port and terminal facilities and
distribution hubs are also being made
more energy-efficient, including through
the establishment of Energy Management Teams (EMTs).
Replacing the fleet of trucks with the
more energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly EURO 5 trucks has been

Electricity consumption is a key area
for our terminals and warehouses, and
significant measures have also been
implemented here in 2013.
New low-energy lighting at our warehouses in Immingham is estimated to
save 200 tons of CO2 per year.

Improved refrigeration systems and
low-energy lighting at our warehouses
in Belfast and Larkhall have reduced
consumption by approximately 10%.
A multi-year contract for the supply of
“green” electricity has been entered into
for the terminal in Vlaardingen.
Land power
The project mentioned in the 2012 report to develop land power in the ports
of Ghent, Immingham and Gothenburg,
and on the six ships which dock at these
ports, has been discontinued. This is due
partly to greatly increased costs and
partly to a lack of commitment by the
other external partners involved. DFDS
is, however, continuously investigating
similar projects. It must be noted here
that several countries are working on
legislation which may make cheaper power possible for precisely such
purposes.
Waste processing
Waste is produced by most activities
on board ships, in logistics centres,
in ports and by our offices. We are
developing particularly effective and
environmentally friendly plans for the
processing and removal of waste in
partnership with an external company
and in accordance with the regulations which apply in the countries
in which we operate. A total of nine
locations and ships were covered by

this plan in the course of 2013 and
the work to extend the system will
continue in the years to come. In the
locations and ships covered by this
programme, the share of recycled
materials rose from 22% in 2012 to
47% in 2013.
Scrapping ships
As the IMO’s draft Hong Kong Convention from 2009 on the environmentally
friendly scrapping of ships has still not
been ratified, in 2013 DFDS has adopted
its own set of rules which resemble
the proposed text of the Hong Kong
Convention on all significant points.
DFDS will comply with these rules for
the scrapping of ships until the IMO’s
convention has been adopted. DFDS had
no scrapping activities
in 2013.
Next steps/commitments 2014/15
•	Further development of the plan to
reduce bunkers consumption by 5%
over the next five years
•	Continued focus on reducing energy
consumption on board ships through
local and central initiatives
•	Investing in technical equipment for
cleaning exhaust gases of sulphur,
including further development of
existing systems
•	System for improved measuring of
the company’s total CO2 emissions

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

17

CR CUSTOMERS
WE AIM TO BE RECOGNIZED AS OUR CUSTOMERS’ PREFERRED SUPPLIER
Highlights 2013
•	Customer satisfaction a high strategic
priority
•	Group-wide Customer Focus Initiative
rolled out to 28 locations
•	DFDS served 8,000 freight customers
and 5.6 million passengers
•	DFDS again voted as ‘World’s leading
ferry operato’”
Our approach
DFDS’ aim is to be recognized as the
preferred supplier in our dealings with
our customers. To continuously achieve
this goal our actions are guided by the
five principles of DFDS’ guiding star for
customer focus.
These five principles are enshrined in
the daily working life of all DFDS offices
and set measureable targets to:
•	Deliver superior reliability and
schedules
•	Constantly bring new solutions
to customers
•	 Be easy to work with
•	Deliver customer service by empowered people with can-do attitudes
•	Ensure we provide fast communication when it matters.
In an increasingly integrated supply
chain our corporate responsibility (CR)
principles and practices play a critical

role in enabling our customers to serve
their end customers in a cost-effective
and resource efficient manner.
Designed to create a greater awareness
of our customers’ needs, the five principles ensure our resources are targeted at
delivering effective and timely solutions
that make logistics a positive contributor
to the success of the supply chain.
A key enabler in this process is for DFDS
to fully understand our customers’ markets and develop solutions which will
minimize the effect on the environment.
Safety, security and how effectively we
use the natural resources that we rely
on to move goods across Europe, are
equally important to our customers.
The ability to measure and report on
our usage of natural resources and to
have proactive targets to improve is
therefore an increasingly important
element of our service to customers.
Our freight customers (B2B)
DFDS Seaways’ networks operate
across 30 routes. For the logistics
industry our main activity is shipping
accompanied and unaccompanied
trailers using our network of shipping
routes to minimize road use. For industrial customers we offer a comprehen-

sive range of logistics services for a
wide variety of companies including
automotive, steel, forest produce,
chemical and food companies. For
these customers, DFDS’ services are an
integrated part of their supply chain.
DFDS Logistics use a wide range of
transport modes to deliver cost-effective environmentally friendly solutions
to our customers.
Rail, road and sea based solutions
are combined with terminal-based
warehousing facilities to create a
seamless supply chain linking our
major industrial customers with their
end customers.
Our ongoing investments in ships,
warehousing, cargo carrying equipment,
IT systems and training reflects our
commitment to the future success of
our customers.

ACTIONS IN 2013
The DFDS way of selling
To enable us to deliver on our commitments, DFDS launched an initiative
across the business focused on sales
training. Over 200 operations and sales
staff participated in training designed to

develop our ability to identify and add
value to our customers’ businesses.
The central theme of this training is
based on establishing the needs within
our customer’s businesses and creating
solutions to address these needs. This
process calls for collective interaction
with the customer and investing time to
agree and construct proposals that add
value to their business.
Spending more time with customers and
creating awareness of the needs of their
industry and business allows our staff
to play an active part in developing
effective and sustainable solutions.
CRM Sales Pipeline
Our CRM Sales Pipeline tool is designed to create greater visibility of
our existing and new customers. To
enhance this transparency further we
will invest in a new CRM system in
2014. Based around the principle of
delivering value to the business, the
focus is on creating awareness of the
need and the action plan agreed to
deliver solutions to meet these needs.
The new system enables us to measure our activities more quickly with
customers and ensure we can respond
in an efficient and timely manner to
changes in business flows.

Tracking tools
Giving customers full visibility of their
goods whilst in transit was identified as
a key requirement for many customers.
DFDS have invested in new technology
to give instant access to our vehicles on
route and at our customers’ premises.
Based on an app and using the driver’s mobile phone, the system reports
arrival time at each delivery and, using
an in-built camera, we can download
the signed proof of delivery documents
to the customer immediately the goods
are delivered.
The system saves administration time
and improves the utilization of our vehicles through reduced waiting time and
empty running as scheduling becomes
more effective.
The system is flexible and can be used
by both our own fleet and by our freight
forwarding partners.
Specialist road trailers
During 2013 DFDS Logistics participated in the trials of 15.65 metre trailers
in the UK. These trials were successful,
showing that the additional capacity
could result in a reduction of road journeys by 15%. This is a direct saving in
road congestion and CO2 and also gives

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

18

our customers a significant cost saving
in their distribution costs.
Working with our major retail customers, we continue to grow our fleet of
supercube trailers. Having the ability
to deliver up to 50 pallets per site
visit creates a significant reduction in
congestion on busy sites and offers a
reduction in road miles of up to 50%.
CO2 measurement
DFDS now offer customers a tool to
measure CO2 usage on many routes and
also a comparison with other transport
modes. Customers can now measure the
benefit of switching shipping routes or
switching from road to rail and actively
track the benefits over the year.
Acknowledgement
DFDS was voted ‘Logistics company of
the year’ by the Irish Exporters Association in 2013.
Next steps/commitments 2014/2015
•	Expand cooperation with major
customers on health and safety
•	Launch of new website focused on
best practice in health and safety and
driver training
•	New driver training programme to
ensure both our drivers and subcontractors are fully conversant
with our standards

•	Explore opportunities to reduce carbon footprint by using bio fuel and/
or food customers’ waste food oils
converted into road fuel
•	Reduce miles from source to end customer in food logistics in partnership
with major customers by mapping
supply chains, including storage locations
Our passengers (B2C)
Passenger travel services are offered on
13 routes in DFDS’s route network. More
than five million passengers travelled
on those routes in 2013. Short crossings
between France and the UK across the
English Channel recorded the highest
passenger volume, with 4.0m passengers. Similar to the English Channel,
the passenger routes in the Baltic
Sea mainly serve the demand for car
transportation and attracted 206,000
passengers in 2013. Meanwhile, some
1.4m passengers were carried on the
three overnight cruise ferry routes that
connect the Netherlands, the UK, Denmark and Norway.
A key goal for DFDS is to offer its customers throughout Europe an experience
that meets or exceeds their expectations. In order to reach that goal, a safe
journey for all passengers is of utmost
importance. Safety on board is of the
highest priority. More information on
regulations and initiatives is available

in the ‘Safety and Security’ section of this
CR report, on pages 38–41. In addition to
taking full responsibility for passenger
safety, understanding customer needs is
the cornerstone of the DFDS approach to
meeting customer expectations.
A special Passenger Competence Centre
(PCC) continues foster a customer-centric approach within our organizational
structure. The purpose is to increase
consistency of passenger operations
and to show ‘one face to the customer’.
The goals and tasks of the PCC include
a unified level of customer service,
making sure that all activities and services meet DFDS standards, conformity
in marketing communication and an
overall travel experience that meets the
highest standards on all DFDS routes.
Customer surveys and customer
service projects
Over the years at DFDS, we have developed a strong sense of our customers’
expectations through our ongoing and
comprehensive Customer Satisfaction
Surveys (CSS). These surveys give us a
deeper understanding of our customers’
needs, and we transform those findings
into day-to-day operations and services
on board. The CSS offers customers the
possibility to give feedback to DFDS and
contribute to our ongoing process of
assuring that their on board experience
meets their expectations.

Over 61,000 customers have responded
to our extensive questionnaire, resulting
in extremely valuable input into how we
best can invest our resources.
The upgrade of both ships on Copenhagen-Oslo is an investment of DKK 120m
that was shaped by input from guests
who have already sailed with us and
guests that will be sailing with us in the
years to come.
Two important initiatives were continued in 2013 to help us continue our
commitment to customer service.
The Customer Focus Initiative (CFI) is a
key initiative for DFDS. The project uses
further research on customer values
that is vital to retaining and improving a
high level of satisfaction. CFI’s parameters cover many facilities and service areas on board our ships like restaurants,
recreational facilities and entertainment
on board. More information on CFI is
available on page 12.
Our Compax initiative focuses on DFDS
passenger operations in the Baltic Sea.
By looking for places where service
can be improved throughout the entire
voyage, from ticket purchase to disembarking, the Compax project team seeks
to raise customer satisfaction on the
Baltic routes.

Data protection
Our customer improvement projects
require addressing customers’ needs
through analysis of customer information. DFDS consistently respects data
privacy and complies with the European Data Protection Directive (95/46/
EC) as well as with the national data
protection acts in the countries where
we operate. Marketing communication
is sent only to individuals who have explicitly agreed to accept it. DFDS further
follows the mandates of the proposed
“European General Data Protection
Regulation” to ensure compliance with
new regulation.
Passenger rights
DFDS follows the European Maritime Passenger Rights Regulations
(1177/2010) that were put in place in
December 2012. In accordance with
the regulation, DFDS ensures that
assistance is offered to disabled passengers and to those with reduced mobility. From booking to port facilities
and, ultimately, their voyage on board
a DFDS ship, passengers with special
needs are supported and informed
every step of the way. Other sections
of the Regulations require that DFDS
provide transparency in pricing across
countries and the entitlement of passengers to certain rights in the event
of delays or cancellations.

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

19

Communication with passengers
DFDS places a high priority on keeping passengers informed throughout
their journey. Much of this communication takes place directly at check-in
and on board the ships. However, a
significant and increasing proportion
of information is being transferred
through different channels, including
the internet. Developments range
from service calls prior to departure
to our increased social media presence that helps to fulfill our responsibility of keeping passengers fully informed. Our approach to social media
is decentralized and country-specific
and supported by an overarching
DFDS social media guideline that
ensures consistency across markets.
Social responsibility
DFDS continued our tradition of inviting homeless people in Copenhagen
on board a ship for a free Christmas
dinner. Over 320 guests joined us in
Copenhagen. Along with those that
came on board in Oslo, more than 500
people enjoyed a Christmas meal. All
DFDS employees on hand donated
their time to the cause.
Recognition
The DFDS approach towards meeting
and exceeding customer expectations
has been recognized with several

awards. This recognition for superior
customer service reflects our efforts
to meet or even exceed our customers’
expectations.
‘Europe’s Leading Ferry Operator’ and
‘World’s Leading Ferry Operator’
DFDS added another chapter to its
success story at the yearly World
Travel Awards. Being ahead of its
competitors in both the European and
worldwide competition acknowledged
our strong focus on superior customer
service and a genuine experience
on board our ships. For the seventh
consecutive year, DFDS managed to
win one of the prestigious World Travel
Awards, known as the ‘Oscars’ of the
travel industry. This is the second
consecutive year that DFDS was
awarded the trophy for both Europe
and the whole world.

DFDS AT THE WORLD TRAVEL
AWARDS
•	World Travel Awards Winner
‘World’s Leading Ferry Operator’
2011, 2012 & 2013
•	World Travel Awards Winner
‘Europe’s Leading Ferry Operator’
2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011,
2012 & 2013

•	Best passenger shipping company
Along with European and worldwide
honours, DFDS received the Danish
Travel Award as the best passenger
shipping company operating between
Denmark and foreign countries.
This is the sixth time that DFDS
received the award, underlining our
commitment to customer satisfaction
and our willingness to listen to the
voice of the consumer.

Future steps/commitments 2014/15
•	The Customer Focus Initiative will
be continued. Several workgroups
are running pilot projects and those
results will be used to make both
short- and long-term improvements.
•	The identified improvement potentials for on-board services from the
Compax initiative will be integrated
into day-to-day operations

•	Norwegian Customer Service Prize
DFDS won the ‘journey by boat’
category of the Norwegian Customer
Service prize for the third year
running. DFDS emerged as the
winner following an extensive survey
that included 90 of the biggest
customer centres in Norway. DFDS’s
commitment to finding customerfriendly solutions to ensure a positive
experience for the customer was
singled out for praise by the jury.
•	
‘Good Hospitality’ and ‘Premier
Collection’ - David Urquhart Travel,
DFDS’ largest UK tour operator
partner, awarded its ‘Good Hospitality’
and ‘Premier Collection’ prizes to the
Amsterdam-Newcastle ferry route.
DFDS scored very highly on the
overall assessment of the journey,
including key service dimensions like
restaurant service and staff efficiency.

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

20

SUPPLIERS
WE COOPERATE WITH MORE THAN 1,000 SUPPLIERS IN MORE THAN 13 COUNTRIES
Highlights
•	DFDS sources goods and services for
around 50 ships, over 30 locations
and 7,500 units of cargo carrying
equipment
•	Around 5,000 purchase orders
each month
•	All supply contracts include our
Supplier Code of Conduct
•	New Group Procurement organization
in place
•	Closer cooperation with business
•	New sourcing tools: e-RFx and
e-auctions
•	Continued consolidation of
supplier base
Our approach
The Group Procurement function is
part of the Finance Division of DFDS.
Focus in the sourcing process is on
selecting suppliers with the best fit
for the needs, demands – including
CR requirements – and value for
money for DFDS.
We cooperate with more than 1,000
suppliers in more than 13 countries
and strive to add value to the company through efficient procurement
and close cooperation with internal
as well as external partners. We
value a close dialogue and cooperation with our suppliers in our daily
activities.

The Procurement organisation is located
in Denmark, France, UK, and Lithuania.
Creating value for the company:
Developments 2013
In 2013, Group Procurement welcomed
new members to the team in order to
ensure we could provide the necessary
support to the business.
An important event in 2013 was the initiation of a group-wide project, Project
100. The objective is to achieve a DKK
100m improvement of DFDS’ EBIT by
2015 through more efficient procurement. In order to achieve this target, we
have started to embrace procurement
tools such as e-RFx and e-auctions.
The first e-auction involved suppliers of
lubrication oil, of which large volumes
are consumed by our ships. The preparation process for e-auctions, as well
as other supplier negotiations, include
exploration of new ways to enhance
cooperation on procurement with the
business units in line with our new
procurement strategy finalised in 2013.
This includes:
•	Closer cooperation with business
units: before entering into a tender a
detailed analysis and documentation
of the business unit’s supply requirements is made. This identifies the

potential for substantial reductions
in required volumes and number of
articles to be purchased, as well as
significant savings. This process also
results in less waste being produced.
•	Integration of the marine purchasing
processes in the maintenance system
SERTICA, thus achieving full integration with ships’ maintenance planning
and the financial and controlling
processes. This allows for more transparent and automated processes and
more just-in-time deliveries, reducing
the need for stocks on board and the
amount of cash tied up in stocks.
•	Consolidation of volumes across
offices and business units to reduce
the number of suppliers and improve
commercial terms.
Responsible procurement
In accordance with The DFDS Way, collaboration and engagement are central
to responsible procurement.
DFDS chooses suppliers who operate in
a decent and respectful manner.
Our suppliers must accept to conform to
the DFDS Supplier Code of Conduct and
all applicable international conventions
and national legislation in the country
where production or services are performed. Specifically, our suppliers must
respect the following:

•	Laws relating to child labour, coercion
or involuntary labour
•	Rules regarding safety and the
workplace
•	ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Works
•	Rules relating to employee discrimination on grounds of race, religion,
age, nationality, sexual orientation
or gender
•	Regulations on anti-corruption and
anti-bribery, including all subcontractors and business partners
•	Environmental regulations that apply
in the country where the product
is manufactured or the service
performed.
For procurement related to shipping,
our internal audit programme validates
that a supplier is on the relevant maritime authority database as required
under the EU Marine Equipment
Directive 1996. A supplier will achieve
the Wheelmark and be included in the
database if it satisfies these criteria.
DFDS follows the Global Ship Management System approach to validating
that a supplier meets safety and environmental requirements, and that it has
achieved its Wheelmark.

ity, environmental protection and social
responsibility.
Moving ahead
A major focus for Group Procurement
in 2014 will be to continue the integration and collaboration process across
the DFDS Group to ensure continuous
improvement and adaptation of best
practices in line with The DFDS Way.
Next steps/commitment 2014/15
•	After two successful e-auctions in
2013, DFDS will continue to use
e-auctions as an efficient tool for
purchasing of products and services
that are suited to this method
•	Continue to pursue our goal of improving DFDS’ EBIT by DKK 100m in
2015 through more efficient procurement processes
•	Focus on development and implementation of standard systems and
processes
•	Implement contract database
•	Further development of procurement
tools

We try to protect our commercial value
from being negatively affected by issues
relating to security, product safety, qual-

CR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2013

21

