DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2008

ENVIRONMENT

43

TOWARDS
SUSTAINABLE
SHIPPING
DFDS’S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
n

n

n

We are committed to continually developing our operations and
activities towards lower energy consumption and less impact on
the environment.
We will continually monitor and analyse our energy consumption
and our impact on the environment within the framework of ISO
14001 certification.
We will disseminate knowledge of our environmental policy
among our staff and management in order to ensure a higher degree of awareness about environmental issues. We will constantly
develop and extend our knowledge and technical expertise in
order to ensure continual progress towards more sustainable
operations.

Laws and regulations
The marine environment is protected by both national and international laws and regulations. We respect and support the continued
development of measures designed to facilitate progress towards
more sustainable shipping.
Emissions
CO2 is the most common greenhouse gas, and the volume emitted
rises or falls proportionally with fuel consumption. The most effective
means of reducing CO2 emissions is therefore to reduce the consumption of bunkers per transported unit.
Reduction of consumption of bunkers
DFDS has initiated a project designed to reduce the consumption
of bunkers, and therefore emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere.
The project consists of a whole series of technical and operational
initiatives, as well as the ongoing registration of consumption. Technical initiatives include, for example, improved engine efficiency, the
recycling of excess heat and better management of onboard energy
consumption.
The operational aspect involves changing departure and arrival
times in order to reduce the ships’ service speed as much as possible, which will therefore reduce the consumption of bunkers. The
consumption of bunkers was lowered by approximately 4 % in 2008
than in 2007.
Concentration of volumes provide environmental advantages
In addition, the Group’s long-term goal is to move the fleet towards
bigger ships. Concentrating freight volumes on larger but fewer vessels
will also reduce energy consumption and emissions per transported
unit.

Targets for reductions
Since 2007, DFDS has been operating with a five-year target to
reduce emissions of CO2 by 10 %.
Sulphur
The amount of sulphur particles emitted by ships’ engines depends
not only on the volume of fuel consumed but also on its sulphur content. In 2006, following international legislation, the permitted sulphur
level in fuel oil for vessels in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea was
reduced to 1.5 %, compared to 4.5 % elsewhere. The targets are regularly reassessed, and the IMO has set a new limit for sulphur content.
From 2015, the limit will be 0.1 % in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea,
compared to 0.5 % elsewhere.
Concerted efforts are also being made to find alternative means
of reducing ships’ sulphur emissions. One possibility is to install “scrubbers” in the ships’ funnels, which strip the sulphur out of waste gas.
DFDS is taking part in a development project for a newly designed
scrubber, which will be installed on a North Sea freight ship in summer
2009. The scrubber method offers certain advantages, as uncertainty
exists about the availability and reliability of supplies of fuel oil with
a maximum sulphur content of 0.1 %, as well as about the price level.
A scrubber will make it possible to purchase oil with a higher sulphur
content. In addition, provisional test results suggest that the method
may have additional environmental advantages, as it also removes
particles from the waste gas.
Antifouling paint
The previously used types of antifouling paints, which contained tin
and emitted environmentally damaging heavy metals into the marine
environment, are no longer permitted. DFDS is currently replacing its
antifouling paint with a new type of silicone-based paint. This is not
only environmentally friendly, but also reduces the ships’ friction in the
water, which in turn reduces energy consumption and emissions.
Sewage emissions
DFDS’s ships are fitted with biological cleansing units that biodegrade
the sewage generated by onboard water consumption. The sewage
is then collected in tanks and later discharged away from coastal and
particularly sensitive sea areas, which minimises the impact on the
marine environment.
As appropriate units are set up to receive the waste, and as
improved cleansing and storage facilities are developed on new ships,
DFDS expects to introduce new procedures, including pumping sewage onshore.

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2008

4%

ENVIRONMENT

45

REDUCTION OF BUNKER
CONSUMPTION IN 2008

Noise

Future work on the environment

DFDS is actively involved in efforts to reduce noise pollution from
ships calling at and docking in ports in areas with noise-sensitive environments. In particular, technical improvements are being developed in
the form of noise insulation for engines and ramps. Attempts are also
being made to reduce noise by changing routines wherever possible.
Noise will be easier to address in future, as architects will focus on
noise reduction in the early stages of vessel construction.

Work on reducing the environmental impact of the Group’s activities
will continue as the environmental policy is developed. As part of
this process, work has commenced on co-ordinating efforts across
the business areas and in the different countries in order to ensure
a coherent and consistent approach to environmental work. Several
subsidiaries now have their own environmental certification. The
eventual aim is to collate certification in order to achieve quantifiable,
objective indicators of progress towards an increasingly sustainable
company at Group level.

Information
In order to improve environmental awareness, DFDS issued the
information pack “DFDS & the Environment” to all members of staff
in 2008. It describes the Group’s environmental policy, and outlines
initiatives to reduce the company’s environmental impact. The pack
also describes ways in which individual members of staff can help to
reduce the impact on the environment.

46

HR REPORT

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2008

HUMAN
RESOURCES

The staff and management’s competences and commitment are
crucial to DFDS’s ability to compete effectively. Ongoing development
of the company’s human resources is therefore an important element
in DFDS’s strategy, “From Routes to Networks”.
HR work aims to help increase the satisfaction, commitment
and productivity of the staff. As part of this work, a comprehensive
satisfaction analysis was conducted in autumn 2008. In general, the
study revealed widespread well-being and loyalty to DFDS, but it also
revealed a desire for greater opportunities for personal development
and career planning. This underlines the need for the work currently
being done on providing a greater range of HR services for development, training and further education.
Recruitment work will be a top priority in the next few years, as
demographic developments are expected to lead to greater competition for trainees and other young people. DFDS plays an active role in
the Danish Shipowners’ Association’s “Blue Denmark” project, which
promotes the opportunities and advantages of careers in shipping.
Its activities include publicising the options for overseas employment,
management positions and training.
Management development
A greater degree of uniformity will be sought in management development across all of the business areas. Although the manager’s job is
to generate results, this can only be achieved with the help of a team
of competent staff who are able to work together, engage in dialogue
and transcend business areas. The manager delegates, challenges and
takes decisions.
In 2009, a two-week training programme called “Zoom” will be
introduced. It will provide basic management training, with the primary
focus on interpersonal communication.

Skills enhancement
For individual staff members, success is rooted in competence.
DFDS’s starting point is that the individual member of staff wishes
to develop personally and improve job skills. On the one hand, this
improves the individual’s contribution to the financial performance
of the company. On the other, it also improves the opportunities
available to individual staff members. Skills are enhanced through,
for example, courses, coaching, delegating responsibility and assessing the way in which work is organised.
The DFDS Academy
In the longer term, an “academy” will be set up to promote training
and educational activities, and to ensure that these are co-ordinated across the different parts of the company.
Social relations
HR work also includes the development of social policies that deal
with and provide support to staff with alcohol, drug, stress and
other problems. For example, an agreement has recently been
reached on health insurance.
Information
HR also involves making sure that staff receive quick and clear
information about changes that impact upon their working conditions, employment or on the state of the company in general.

DFDS’ HUMAN RESOURCES 2008
DFDS’s HR Department put a great deal of effort into the implementation of DFDS
Seaways’ improvement plan, which reduced the number of jobs but ensured a future
business platform.
HR’s role was to keep individual members of staff informed during the process, and
to retain an overview of the overall implementation of the plan in order to ensure that
the process was as painless as possible for staff.
Closure of the Bergen route and adaptation of the land-based
organisation
The decision to close the Bergen route meant redundancy for approximately 270
members of staff on a passenger ship, and 70 in the headquarters and agency.
HR co-ordinated the redundancies in compliance with the national labour-market
regulations in Denmark, Norway and England. Co-ordinated information was provided,
both on land and on board the ship. Managers and staff from the HR Department
served redundancy notices, redeployed staff to other ships and briefed the crew.

Change of management structure and industrial-relations
agreements on board
During this phase of the improvement plan, the aim was to increase flexibility on board
the two passenger ships on the Oslo route. A more simple management structure was
also introduced, and commercial responsibility was further decentralised on all ships.
In order to restructure operating costs by changing the staffing principles, HR
re-negotiated the existing agreements with the Danish trade unions 3F Privat Service,
Hotel og Restauration and Dansk Sø Restaurations Forbund.
In future, the catering function will consist of three groups: a full-time crew; a flexible
crew that can transfer between ships; and part-time workers who will be called in for
unusually busy sailings – for example, during weekends and holiday periods.
The new principles represent a considerable improvement in our ability to tailor
staff levels to suit the number of passengers on board. Implementation of the model
would not have been possible had the trade unions not fully understood its necessity.
The new structure therefore helps to pave the way for a significantly more positive
trend in both passenger activities and future employment levels.

