Management's review
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Bank’s CSR policy
The Bank’s five values, together with the Bank’s environmental
policy, are the foundation of the Bank’s ongoing CSR effort.

The Bank’s economic social contribution
The Bank contributes financially - as a local business in Eastern
Jutland - both directly and indirectly to creating value for society.
The Bank contributes indirectly by tying investments and financing
together for 42,700 private customers and 3,600 commercial
customers in the market area.
Some of the Bank’s operating expenses are settled as revenue in a
number of local businesses, and the Bank’s 200 employees also help
generate revenue and growth in the local area.

The five values
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Team, well-being and security
Committed and effective
Active customer advice
Sound economy
Local and visible

The Bank’s direct financial contributions in terms of public payments
for 2016 are calculated at:

The five values form the foundation on which the Bank’s
Management and employees are expected to base their daily work
and decisions; these values are described in connection with the
four significant stakeholder categories to which the Bank’s social
responsibility primarily relates:
Customers
Employees
The local community
The environment, climate and social compliance

22% corporate income tax
13.6% payroll tax
Property tax

17.7
13.7
0.3

Total (DKK million)

31.7

Add to this payment of energy charges, other indirect taxes and VAT.
For 2016, the direct effect of the Bank as a workplace is calculated
at:

At Djurslands Bank, we believe that the greatest CSR contribution is
achieved when the Bank’s core business is in line with society’s
general interests and expectations as to proper and honest conduct,
thus making CSR an integral part of the Bank’s everyday work.
The Bank also supports the Danish Parliament’s initiatives and
efforts to put human rights and climate impacts high on the social
agenda. As a local bank, however, we have a strong local focus and
therefore have not adopted specific policies in these two areas.

Employee's total payment of income tax
Labour market contributions

30.4
7.9

Total (DKK million)

38.3

The Bank has published the statutory CSR report on its website.
The goals, status and trends in each area are described annually (in
Danish) in an appendix to the Bank’s annual report, which all of the
Bank’s stakeholders can access at
djurslandsbank.dk/ombanken/samfundsansvar2016.

Djurslands Bank's environmental policy
The Bank endeavours to comply with and support developments in
Danish environmental legislation.
As a business entity, the Bank primarily implements the policy in the
areas of energy, technology and buildings by continuously acting
with the intent to apply solutions which minimise natural resource
consumption in the most environmentally friendly way.
As a workplace, the Bank implements the policy through employee
policies and the values “Team, well-being and safety” as well as
through constructive cooperation in the Bank’s working
environment organisation.
As a lender, the Bank implements the policy via its customer and
credit policy.

23

