Statement for corporate social responsibility
FirstFarms aims to produce agricultural products of high quality. The production must be done in a way, so
that focus is maintained on environment and animal welfare. Through the local production FirstFarms also
contributes to streamline the agriculture in the concerned regions and to generate production with benefit to
the local population.
FirstFarms thus continuously operates commercial to increase the social advantages and minimize the liability
of social resources.

Environment
At present, FirstFarms produces crops and milk. The production of crops is carried out according to the local
rules and the rules in EU, as both Slovakia and Romania are members of EU. Hence there are a range of
requirements regarding use of spray pesticides and fertiliser, both organic and non-organic fertiliser, which
the company must meet. Logbooks are kept of the usage according to the local rules. The local employees
are trained in correct handling of fertiliser and spray pesticides. FirstFarms experiences improvements of the
land over time, when it has been cultivated for a number of years. Fewer pesticides are used and the yields
are increasing.
FirstFarms cattle stable in Slovakia with appurtenant capacity to handle manure fulfil the present requirements from EU and the Slovakian authorities. The modern plant with manure separation gives a better utilisation of the manure and a more proper environmental handling.
Our self-monitoring and the supervision from the authorities have shown that FirstFarms complies with regulatory requirements.

The administration in East Romania

25 of 66

Animal welfare
FirstFarms places great emphasis on animal welfare, and focus is on animal welfare in the daily established
routines for the association with cows and young cattle. Focus is on correct transportation of the animals according to the rules in EU and requirements to external collaborators to comply with rules.
Medication is carried out according to the local rules, and the medicine is stored under the control of the inspecting veterinary. Cows treated with medicine are milked separately, so that no milk with medicine residues
is delivered to the dairies.
FirstFarms has not determined a policy for respect for human rights and for reduction of the climate impact.

Goals for the underrepresented sex
Today, the company has no women on the Board of Directors. It is the company's goal over the next 3 years
that at least one board member must be a woman. In 2014, one member of the Board of Directors was replaced and it was assessed that the selected candidate was the best qualified in regards to experience etc.