Corporate Social Responsibility

FirstFarms focuses on sustainable development and assumescorporate social responsibility (CSR) in connectionwith its acquisition of companies in Central and Eastern Europeancountries and, in particular, in connection with thesubsequent operation of the farms. FirstFarms’ policy is forthe subsidiaries to comply with all environmental and animalwelfare requirements in regard to production and operation,as well as other requirements such as the variousworking-environment and training requirements in force inthe country, where the respective farms are placed. As arule, such compliance is not in place when existing companiesand farms are taken over. Consequently, FirstFarms ispreparing the necessary action and investment plans to ensurecompliance with applicable legislation.To ensure sustainable development in regard to issuessuch as the environment and animal welfare, and to ensureemployee satisfaction and training, FirstFarms uses manyresources on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), sincethe company considers that this approach will work to thecompany’s benefit in the longer run.EnvironmentFirstFarms does not wish harm to nature or the environmentto result from the company’s activities in Central and EasternEurope. That is why the company wishes to ensure compliancewith environmental rules as farm activities are pursuedin the different countries where the company runs farms.In compliance with legislation in the countries where First-Farms operates, the company monitors the use of pesticidesand fertilisers. Pesticides which are not approved in thecountry in which the company carries out agricultural activitiesare not used by the company. The company complieswith legislation in respect of the quantities and use of bothorganic and non-organic fertilisers.In some areas, special environmental agreements mustbe observed; in these areas, which are cultivated under EUenvironmental consideration rules, the rules are monitoredin regard to field plans, crop rotation and spraying restrictions.In those areas of Slovakia which are subject to specialenvironmental protection, in proximity to the MorovaRiver flood plains, the company abides by the particular environmentalregulations applicable here. In this area, approvalof the spraying plan is also obtained from the environmentalauthorities before spraying commences.The company wishes to avoid its employees being involvedin environmental accidents, so the company ensuresthat the employees have the requisite, statutory training inhow to use the different sprays. Such training is providedon an ongoing basis and is refreshed at least once a yearupon the company’s initiative.FirstFarms acquired the Slovak agricultural companyMlyn Lahore A/S in October 2007, a company with over2,000 hectares of leased land. About half of this land iscertified for organic production, which means that First-Farms is able to offer organic farm produce for sale.Animal welfareFirstFarms wishes to improve efficiency and operate profitablefarms, but not at the expense of animal welfare. Thatis why the company seeks to ensure that the animals donot suffer any distress or injury from the activities pursuedby the company in Central and Eastern Europe.To avoid animal abuse and negligence during transport ofthe company’s animals, buyers and carriers of FirstFarms’ animalshave documented that they are in compliance with applicableanimal transport legislation. FirstFarms thus ensuresits compliance with all applicable animal transport legislationin the countries where the company operates. In the EU, theregulation of animal transport is specified in exactly the samemanner in all member states in the form of Council Regulation(EC) No. 1/2005 of 22 December 2004 on the protectionof animals during transport and related operations.FirstFarms complies with local country rules in regard tomedication and retention deadlines; consequently, the onlymedicine stocks kept are known about by the authorities andinspected on a regular basis. The company collaboratesclosely with the veterinary authorities in the countries wherethe company operates. FirstFarms is also engaged in providingsupplementary training to local vets with the assistanceof their Danish counterparts. This ensures optimal treatmentbased on the latest methods, which far exceed normal practicein Central and Eastern European countries.FirstFarms seeks to avoid supplying milk with medicationresidue to the dairies and thus to the consumers. This isdone by milking cows that have received medical treatmentseparately, so that this milk is not accidentally mixed withthe milk supplied to the dairies. The milk from cows thathave received medication treatment is not used as fodderfor heifer calves either, since FirstFarms does not want torun the risk of having multi-resistant animals in the herd.In addition to retraining of local veterinarians, the companyalso assists with education and retraining of hoof trimmers inorder to ensure proper treatment of hooves and to avoid leginjuries. This means that the highest possible regard is paidto animal welfare at the same time as loss of productivity isavoided. Local staff are also trained in animal welfare in orderto ensure that the animals enjoy optimum conditions.The staff follows a programme designed by the company:“Cow behaviour and wellbeing”, which enables employees toobserve whether the animals enjoy optimised conditions.
