CSR &
­environmental
­report
2013/14
Gabriel A/S

2

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



Contents
	

4	

Company information

	

5	

Management’s report

	

6	

CSR and environmental policies

	

8	

From raw material to finished product

	 10	

Materials and resources	

	 12	

Responsible production and supplier management

	 14	

Environmental labelling and certifications

	 17	

Development and innovation

	 18 	 Working environment
	 19	

Gabriel Erhvervspark

	 20 	 Consolidated data
	 21 	 Notes: Measuring methods and basis of calculations
	 22	

Auditor’s certificate

3

Company information

Company:	
Gabriel A/S
	
Hjulmagervej 55
	
DK-9000 Aalborg
	
Reg. no.: 176574
	
VAT no.: 12721307
	
Phone: +45 9630 3100
	
Fax: +45 9813 2544
	
E-mail: mail@gabriel.dk	
	www.gabriel.dk
	
Group relationships:	

Gabriel A/S is a wholly owned subsidiary of the listed company Gabriel Holding A/S.

Sector:	

Textile industry.

Principal activities:	

Production of furniture fabrics including the processes of dyeing and finishing.

Legislation:	Gabriel’s activities in Denmark are covered by environmental legislation and
regulations established by the City of Aalborg.
Supervisory authority:	

City of Aalborg.

Financial year:	

01.10.13 - 30.09.14

Number of employees:	

164

External auditor and accredited
environmental verification:	Gabriel A/S is certified by DNV GL Business Assurance Danmark A/S
under accreditation number DK6001
NACE code:	

13.92 – Manufacture of made-up textile articles, except apparel.

The CSR and Environmental Report for the financial year 2014/15 will be published in November 2015.
This report was prepared for Gabriel A/S which, throughout the report, will be referred to as Gabriel.
The report also covers some aspects relating to other companies within the Group.

4

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a natural part of the
Group’s activities, and to Gabriel, CSR means that the company
takes responsibility for adding value which contributes directly
and indirectly to a positive development in society. The company
therefore endorses the principles specified in the UN Global
Compact and puts a determined effort into the company’s CSR
and environmental policies. Being a responsible company is
central to the way Gabriel is run and is a permanent point on
the strategic agenda. CSR is not a transient fashion phenomenon
but a strategic driver on a par with e.g. product development
and sales. Gabriel assumes an extraordinary responsibility for
how products are produced, including in those areas where the
group is not the owner.
We see Gabriel’s environmental work as a part of our CSR, and
this report relates to both perspectives. The purpose of the report
is to share information on Gabriel’s CSR and environmental work
with the company’s stakeholders and commit ourselves to continuous improvement by publicising goals, activities and achieved
results in accordance with the guidelines in the EMAS regulation.
The company’s CSR and environmental actions in the financial
year 2013/14 include increased focus on the description and
­implementation of new work processes in the form of further
development of the company’s management system, which
ensures that Gabriel is able to deliver products and services
which meet the customer’s requirements with respect to quality,
environment and CSR.
Delivering the right products and services at the right time is
not possible without a solid partnership with external partners –
both customers and suppliers. Gabriel is maintaining its strategy
of “growing with the largest market participants”, ensuring a

targeted effort towards existing and new selected key accounts. In
the financial year 2013/14, Gabriel also focused on strengthening­
relations with strategic partners among suppliers to increase the
transparency and flexibility of the supply network.

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



Management’s report

During the year, Gabriel played an active role in the development
of the next generation EU Ecolabel to ensure widespread use of
the label. In addition, the company was involved in a number of
national projects and consulted other companies for the purpose
of identifying environmental issues and developing CSR and
environmental strategies.
The CSR work is developed continuously, and it is increasingly
implemented in close partnership with the company’s main
­customers, where strong emphasis is also attached to weighing
the products’ CSR and environmental impacts. There is increased
focus on the chemical content of the products, and Gabriel therefore has constant focus on gaining new knowledge on chemical
substances and technologies. Gabriel supports new focus points
and finds that the years of environmental work make it a manageable task to handle new requirements and thus make it easy for
the customer to choose the best alternative. Gabriel will ­continue
to focus on ensuring responsible products through product
­certification and has thus in the financial year 2013/14 extended
the C2C certification to include selected polyester products.
The following pages describe the company’s objective, specific
policies in the CSR and environmental area, concrete effects of
implemented activities and the continuous work on the value
chains of which the company is a part. A detailed review of
Gabriel A/S’s profile is available on the company’s website, www.
gabriel.dk, where the latest financial statements can also be found.

Aalborg, 6 November 2014

Anders Hedegaard Petersen
CEO

Kurt Nedergaard
Business Manager Quality, Environment and Production

5

CSR and environmental policies

Objective for quality, environment and CSR
Services provided by Gabriel must correspond accurately to customer needs and expectations. The company’s production
and distribution proceeds with due respect for a continuing reduction in resource consumption and emissions which might
impact upon the environment. Gabriel’s position as a quality and environmentally conscious company is evidenced by its
certification under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and the EMAS Scheme.

This objective is supported by policies which apply to all the
company’s activities, including Gabriel’s collaborative behaviour
in the value chain.

∙∙ Cleaner technology and environmental improvements are
­regularly introduced into the supply chains with due respect
for the technical and financial consequences, and pollution
must be prevented.

CSR policies

∙∙ Gabriel conducts an open and detailed dialogue with the
­authorities on environmental requirements. The company
has a duty to respect relevant legislation and relevant statutory requirements in the area of the environment as well as
other provisions to which the company has committed itself.

Gabriel endorses the principles embodied in the UN Global
Compact and focuses on the following areas:
∙∙ Gabriel’s products and services are developed and m
­ anufactured
with consideration for the safety and health of users. In the
­production process, Gabriel must minimise environmental
impacts and respect animal welfare.
∙∙ A good working environment which complies with country-­
specific laws and Gabriel’s own requirements is ensured throughout the supply chain. These requirements comprise specific
technical specifications and matters specified in Gabriel’s Code
of Conduct.
∙∙ Continuous skills and job development for all employees are
accorded a high priority.
∙∙ Gabriel wants to support students by providing internships
and participating in research projects which benefit both the
students and the company.
∙∙ Gabriel communicates the company’s CSR activities openly
and supports the propagation of CSR as a managerial activity.

Environmental policy
The environmental management system covers all activities at
Gabriel and all products and services which the company supplies:
∙∙ The company’s annual general objectives are documented in a
business plan for the period 1.10 to 30.9. The business plan covers
environmental goals which must be known by all employees.
∙∙ Energy has an important environmental impact, and energy
management is an integral part of Gabriel’s environmental management. Energy management covers supply systems with
significant energy consumption. Environmental goals and the
environmental action programme must include energy considerations and ensure ongoing improvements in energy consumption.

6

∙∙ Gabriel uses product labelling with the EU Ecolabel and the
Oeko-Tex health label. These labelling schemes were chosen
due to the high level of consumer trust, and awareness of the
schemes is increasing.
∙∙ Gabriel takes account of all phases of the products’ life cycle and
prioritises the environmental initiatives in those areas where the
influence and impact are highest.
∙∙ Gabriel will maintain its position as First Mover within the
­industry, meaning that Gabriel assumes the lead in relation to
taking a position on and implementing new initiatives to improve
the environment.
∙∙ Gabriel prepares a report in connection with the presentation
of the annual financial statements. The report includes information on CSR and major environmental impacts and goals. The
report is available to the public and distributed to all the company’s employees.
∙∙ Customers and users must be advised on significant environmental aspects involved in the use, recycling and disposal of
the company’s products. Those of the company’s employees in
contact with customers must be in a position to provide correct
information on Gabriel’s environmental objective and policies.
This information is also available on the company’s website, where
updated guidance on the company’s products can be found.
∙∙ The company’s suppliers must be selected in accordance with
their ability to fulfil environmental requirements and their willingness to enter into an open and detailed partnership to achieve
optimal solutions.

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14

7



FROM RAW MATERIAL TO FINISHED PRODUCT:
PROCESSES AND ACTIVITIES

Gabriel is a niche company which, in the entire value chain
from concept to furniture user, develops, manufactures and
sells upholstery fabrics, components, upholstered surfaces and
related products and services. Gabriel is organised in a number
of ­independent strategic business units (Masters) with their own
visions, objectives, strategies and budgets.
The objective and the policies set the framework for Gabriel’s
CSR work, including how Gabriel works together with selected
partners. Gabriel has an influence on the entire chain from raw
materials to the finished upholstered product, and the company
therefore has a shared responsibility in all stages both locally
and globally.
There is focus on the complete life cycles of services to obtain the
largest possible environmental benefit of the efforts. This ensures
that a step in the life cycle is not optimised without noting how
it affects the environmental performance in the following steps.
It also ensures priority for the effort where the environmental
benefit will be greatest.
Significant environmental matters are determined on the basis
of systematic surveys, including measurements of input (raw
­materials, water, chemicals and energy), measurements of output
(waste water, scrap and emissions), and setting up of key figures.
Gabriel also continuously monitors the analyses and reports of
institutes, authorities and others who are thoroughly familiar with
environmental matters in order to identify relevant concerns.
The surveys show that the following must be regarded as the
most important environmental matters in the products’ life cycle:
∙∙ Raw materials – New Zealand wool
∙∙ Raw materials – polyester fibres
∙∙ Raw materials – other products used in upholstery, e.g. foam,
metal and plastic
∙∙ Energy consumption and waste water, especially in washing,
dyeing and finishing treatment

∙∙ Consumption of chemicals
∙∙ Scrap from production
∙∙ Waste water
∙∙ Transport of raw materials and finished goods
∙∙ Disposal, including recycling of the products
These matters relate primarily to suppliers and customers’ ­activities
(indirect environmental impacts). Gabriel works to a high degree
with these matters in cooperation with suppliers and customers.
It is therefore essential that Gabriel has a good relationship with
these partners to ensure communication of requirements and goals.
Environmental matters related directly to Gabriel’s activities
and properties:
∙∙ Consumption of energy and heating
∙∙ Noise
∙∙ Generation of waste
∙∙ Transport for customer and supplier visits and other meetings.

High-priority areas
Gabriel’s efforts are described under seven main areas which
form the basis for implementing objectives and policies for CSR
and the environment.
These seven prioritised areas were chosen under the following criteria:
∙∙ Matters prioritised by Gabriel’s CSR and environmental policies
∙∙ Matters judged important by legislation
∙∙ Matters judged important in product labelling, including C2C,
Oeko-Tex and the EU Ecolabel
∙∙ Matters where Gabriel has an influence on effecting an
improvement
∙∙ The relative importance of environmental matters

The seven main areas
∙∙ Materials and resources
∙∙ Responsible production and supply chain management
∙∙ Environmental labelling and certifications
∙∙ Quality and environmental management systems
∙∙ Development and innovation
∙∙ The working environment
∙∙ Gabriel Erhvervspark
These areas are discussed in greater depth on the following pages, which provide an overview of our positions, activities
performed, results and new goals. This is Gabriel’s environmental action programme, the details of which show how the
company intends to work on impacts related to CSR and the environment in 2014/15.

8

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



From raw material to finished product
Wool

PolyesTeR

Raw material
production

- Farming
- Shearing
- Scouring

- Extracting crude oil
- Refining crude oil

Raw material
processing

- Material dyeing
- Carding
- Spinning
- Yarn dyeing
- Twisting

- Petrochemical processing
- Granulate
- Melting granulate
- Spinning fibres

Weaving

Textile production

dyeing
Wet processing, dyeing,
finishing treatment

disPaTch

Making uP
Cutting, sewing, upholstering

use

Disposal

Recycle

Reprocess

New use

9

Materials and resources

Wool

Recycling

Gabriel has a long-term partnership with Wools of New Zealand,
which guarantees high quality raw materials and good ­conditions
for the sheep. This type of wool possesses unique dyeing properties where the dye is absorbed into the fibre. The material also
absorbs light, which results in very attractive colours with lots of
depth and no reflections. Wool maintains its attractive appearance
in use, assuring the finished product a long service life. Gabriel
uses only high quality raw wool, thus avoiding many chemical
finishing treatments.

Due to Gabriel’s life cycle approach, we work on a continuous
basis on how to recycle resources for use in other products or
applications after use, with particular focus on retaining the
high value of the resources. This means that the components
can be handled as ordinary non-toxic waste or recycled in new
products after use.

Polyester
Polyester has come to comprise a significant part of Gabriel’s
product range in recent years. Polyester is the world’s most
used fibre, and it has properties which make it suitable for furniture fabric. Polyester can also be recycled in other products
after use. As an example, Gabriel offers the product Comfort+,
which ­consists of 37% recycled polyester. The work is ongoing to
discover the possibilities for increasing the proportion of fabrics
based on recycled material. Gabriel works only with suppliers
who can deliver high quality polyester yarns which meet Gabriel’s environmental requirements.

Furniture upholstery and upholstery solutions
With Gabriel’s expansion within the business unit FurnMaster’s
activities, Gabriel’s responsibility for buying materials to be used
for the assembly of furniture parts is increasing. Raw material
components are selected in close dialogue with customers, and
Gabriel advises to the extent possible on selection of components
and suppliers who meet Gabriel’s requirements with respect to
the environment, quality and CSR.

10

Control of chemicals
Chemicals are required in the production processes, but Gabriel
controls the choice and use of dyes and chemicals in our suppliers’­
production. The following are therefore not used:
∙∙ Chlorine compounds
∙∙ Organic solvents
∙∙ Dyes containing heavy metals
∙∙ Dyes and pigments which can give off carcinogens
∙∙ PVC
∙∙ Bromine-containing flame retardants
∙∙ Silver ions or other bactericidal treatments
∙∙ Anti-moth impregnation
∙∙ Other substances classified as carcinogenic or mutagenic
These requirements are managed to a high degree in Gabriel
General Requirements, which contain lists of phrases concerning­
undesired risks and chemicals, and minimum requirements for
fabric performance.

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



Materials and resources: Goals and results
Goals 2013/14

Results 2013/14

Goals 2014/15

Launch at least one new product on the
basis of recycled polyester fibre.

Two products based on recycled
­polyester fibre were developed.

The goal has been achieved.

Obtain FSC certification of wood
­products at FurnMaster UAB.

The certification process is ongoing,
and the goal remains.

Obtain FSC certification of wood products
at FurnMaster UAB.

Gain CE-labelling of Zenxit, the new
upholstery material, to allow testing and
launching in special applications.

CE-labelling gained specifically within
health care. A furniture product with
ZenXit gained certification under the
Nordic Ecolabel scheme – the Swan.

The goal has been achieved.

	

	

Carry out a life cycle analysis
to document ZenXit’s
environmental impact.

Objectives 2013/14

Carry out a development project u
­ sing
recycled yarn as a component.
There is substantial focus on the
­possibilities of establishing closed-­
loop material cycles, nationally and
­internationally, and Gabriel will follow
and be directly involved in these projects.

Results 2013/14

Development projects using r­ ecycled
yarn as a component were carried out.
This resulted in C2C certification of
selected polyester designs.
Gabriel followed and continues to
f­ ollow developments within closedloop m
­ aterial cycles. Among other
things, ­Gabriel was project m
­ anager
on an ­industrial s­ ymbiosis project and
is ­participating in a PhD project
on closed-loop material cycles.

	

Objectives 2014/15

Gabriel will continue to follow
developments within closed-loop
cycles actively and be involved in
projects dealing with recirculation
within both product and system
development.
The potential of closed-loop cycles will
be uncovered e.g. through n
­ etworks and
in study and research projects.

Intensified monitoring of global
­environmental legislation together
with the industry organisation for the
purpose of continuously i­ncreasing
Gabriel’s knowledge of industry-specific
legislation.

11

RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION ­
AND SUPPLy chain MANAGEMENT
Gabriel only collaborates with suppliers who are capable of
meeting the requirements applying to products and services,
and Gabriel works actively to select the best possible partners.
Continuous follow-up and assessment of environmental matters
is a high-priority area, and Gabriel requires manufacturers to
comply with all local regulatory requirements and Gabriel’s own
environmental requirements. Accordingly, action plans are prepared and implemented together with suppliers to ensure that
environmental impacts are continually reduced.

Strategic partners must follow high demands. The term strategic
partner covers those companies in the supply chain which are
of the greatest importance to Gabriel. The requirements cover
all areas in the value-adding process. The efficiency and value of
the relation is therefore measured by categorising the relation
and creating a risk profile where the value-adding processes,
­including design and product development, logistics, quality,
production, environment, CSR and working environment as well
as willingness and ability to improve are evaluated by the parties.

The Oeko-Tex and EU Ecolabel labelling schemes ensure compliance with the manufacturing requirements for products to be
verified by third parties. Gabriel follows up on partners’ compliance with Gabriel’s Code of Conduct, a set of rules which
serve to provide guidance with respect to business ethics and
to help our employees to maintain ethical behaviour. The Code
of Conduct is developed on the basis of the UN Global Compact
and is in accordance with the recommendations of the industry
­organisation Dansk Mode & Textil.

Throughout the supply chain, efforts are made to create
­responsible and sustainable results. It is important for Gabriel
to take responsibility not only for financial earnings, but also
for ­environmental sustainability and social justice. Gabriel has
this in mind at all times and seeks to create a synergy effect
between these perspectives to ensure a sustainable result. As
an example, Gabriel is trying to avoid waste through the supply
chain for fi
­ nancial as well as environmental reasons. Textile
waste which cannot be used commercially is used for charity
in the local c­ ommunity and projects such as “Blindes Arbejde”
and “Projekt Øst”.

A responsible supply chain network
Day-to-day dialogues are undertaken by Gabriel’s team in Aalborg
with respect to European partners and by Gabriel Asia Pacific
with respect to partners in that region. However, the development of systems and requirements as well as approval of new
suppliers take place in close dialogue. FurnMaster offers unique
services in furniture upholstery and upholstery solutions and is
an integrated part of Gabriel A/S’s quality management system.
Via the project Strategic Cooperation in the Supply Chain, Gabriel
has been focusing on the development of supplier relationship
management. The project includes increased cooperation with
and across key suppliers, since all links in the chain are responsible for delivering services and products which meet the CSR,
environmental and quality objectives. This is a key element in
creating a strong and transparent supply chain network.

12

Gabriel is continuously striving to establish a supply chain which
provides a good and responsible working environment. Therefore
Gabriel places high priority on choosing partners who provide
proper conditions and comply with Gabriel’s Code of Conduct,
and who actively and continuously strive to improve conditions.
Through strengthened cooperation and good relations, mutual
understanding between companies is achieved, and joint
­development plans can be prepared for the partnerships. Strong
partnerships also help to ensure that Gabriel’s requirements are
communicated to other suppliers in the supply chain.

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



Responsible production and supplier management: Goals and results
Goals 2013/14
Minimum five Masters obtain an individual
certification at the end of the 2013/14
financial year.
This involves assessment by the individual
Master of its core processes and services,
including how quality and environmental
conditions influence the Master’s services.

Continue to increase the proportion of sea
transport from China and, at a minimum,
maintain it at 98.5%.

Results 2013/14

Goals 2014/15

One Master obtained certification, as
the main focus was on developing and
­re-launching Gabriel’s management
­system to a more user-friendly platform.
This includes updating the company’s core
­processes and the individual Masters’
processes, to ­allow all Masters to obtain
individual certification.

At least three more Masters obtain a
­certification at the end of the 2014/15
f­inancial year.

The proportion between sea and air
t­ransport indicates that 91.2% of the
goods produced in China are carried
by sea.

Gabriel’s work on optimisation of transport
is continuing, so that most goods will
be transported by ship or lorry, which is
­important from both an environmental and
a financial point of view.
Increase the proportion of sea transport
from China to minimum 94%.

Gain EMAS certification for the dye works
UAB Scandye.

The focus was on optimisation of ­
production processes with the main
­emphasis on reducing waste water,
energy resources, chemicals and
packaging, based on LEAN principles.

The goal is closed.

Environmental considerations at
Scandye are therefore still managed
in accordance with ISO 14001, which is
considered s­ ufficient at the moment.

UAB Scandye continues to set ­reduction
targets to obtain ongoing improvements
which will be included in the future
­extended reporting of key data
for suppliers.

The water consumption was 131 l/kg fabric,
a reduction of 8% relative to last year.

The goal to reduce consumption remains
and will be included in the extended
­reporting of key data for suppliers.

The electricity consumption was
1.37 kWh/kg fabric, a decrease of
9% relative to last year.
The gas consumption was 0.92 m3/kg fabric,
a decrease of 9% relative to last year.

Objectives 2013/14

Extend reporting to include key
data ­concerning the key suppliers’
CSR results.
Establish a number of indicators
to be included in the reporting
for the next period.

Results 2013/14

A new management tool for collection
of key data is being implemented, and
a pilot project has been carried out.
The purpose of these new actions is
to present a broad picture of activities
and results in the supply network. The
reporting will thus include key data for
the most important suppliers. I­ ndicators
have been established, and the
­reporting is being implemented. 	

Objectives 2014/15

The extended reporting of key suppliers’
CSR results and performance continues,
and the results are assessed on an
­ongoing basis.

13

Environmental labelling and certifications

Environmental and quality data on all Gabriel’s products are
available, and the company can thus offer specific details if a
customer wants a particular label on the product for a specific
market. Whether new product labels should be included in the
portfolio is regularly identified and prioritised as this can be a
way into new markets.
Product labelling helps to ensure that there is an objective basis for
proving that the communication about the products is ­accurate.
The labelling schemes mean that the product ranges are subject
to a number of different requirements and external tests and
approvals which are the customer’s guarantee of the products’
performance. This applies to both internationally recognised
product standards such as those concerning wearability and fireretardant qualities, as well as environmental matters. Gabriel’s
requirement is that an environmentally labelled product must

be able to comply with all the customer’s needs at the same level
as, or better than, a product without the label.
Gabriel uses internationally recognised product labels and
­certifications. On the product side, the EU Ecolabel, Oeko-Tex,
Cradle to Cradle and the Nordic Ecolabel, the Swan, are s­ elected
as they are widely known and recognised. Gabriel strives to be at
the forefront within the industry in using new labels with potential. In 2002, Gabriel was the first upholstery fabric manufacturer
in the world to gain the EU Ecolabel on a large part of the range,
and in 2010, Gabriel was the first Danish company to gain Cradle
to Cradle product certification. Gabriel also seeks to be at the
forefront in 2013/14 and has obtained another Cradle to Cradle
certification in this financial year as well as a status as Oeko-Tex
Company of the month in August 2014 due to the ­company’s
commitment to product safety and sustainable production.

Environmental labelling and certifications: Goals and results
Goals 2013/14
All new products must carry either the EU
Ecolabel or Oeko-Tex.

Results 2013/14
Five new products gained certification under
the EU Ecolabel. Seven new products gained
certification under Oeko-Tex.

Goals 2014/15

­

Examine various labelling schemes to
establish whether they are relevant to
support sales on some of Gabriel’s more
recent markets.

Extension of the C2C programme to
i­nclude at least one new polyester product.

Objectives 2013/14

­

The deadline for revision and updating of
the product range labelled with the EU
Ecolabel is 2015.

Gabriel obtained C2C certification for ­selected
polyester yarns, including two products.

Results 2013/14
Gabriel follows developments and will be
ready when the criteria become effective.

New products will carry either the EU
Ecolabel or Oeko-Tex, and Gabriel will
go on examining new labelling schemes
to support sales on Gabriel’s more
recent markets.

The goal has been achieved.

Objectives 2014/15

­

The goal remains, and Gabriel will follow
the new EU Ecolabel criteria.

Initiate any necessary changes to
­Gabriel’s existing products after
adoption of the new criteria.
In addition, update product requirements
so that new products are developed
with a view to the updated requirements.

Conduct training within the individual
Masters in management systems and
processes as part of the roll-out of the
individual certification.

The individual Masters have updated/are
updating process descriptions as part of the
individual certification in connection with
the re-launching of Gabriel’s m
­ anagement
­system. In addition, all Masters are
­introduced to the new procedures for
­management of deviations.
All employees have been introduced to
­Gabriel’s management system.

14

The goal remains, and training within ­
the individual Masters in management
systems and processes will be conducted
as more Masters are certified.

DS/16/20

The
Ecolabel (the Flower) is the European Union’s environment label. The label covers environmental issues­throughout
EUEU
Ecolabel
the
cycle with
on energy, water
chemicals,Mærket
and accords
a high
to r­ educing
the produktets
most significant
EUproduct’s
Ecolabel life
(Blomsten)
erfocus
den europæiske
unionsand
miljømærke.
forholder
sigpriority
til miljøforhold
i hele
environmental
of energi,
a given vand
product.
For textiles,
means focusing
on the
quantity of pesticide
residues infor
theetraw
livscyklus medimpacts
fokus på
og kemikalier
ogthis
prioriterer
at reducere
de væsentligste
miljøpåvirkninger
gimaterial,
the scouring
of thebetyder
raw wool,
and
emissions
of h
­ azardous
­chemicals
production,
therå
quantity
of toxic
vent produkt.
For tekstiler
det,the
at use
der er
fokus
på mængden
af pesticid­
rester iinråvaren,
vaskand
af den
uld, brugen
og
substances
and
heavy
metals
in
the
finished
product.
udledningen af farlige kemikalier i produktionen samt ­mængden af sundhedsskadelige stoffer og tungmetaller i det færdige
produkt.
The
EU Ecolabel
also
requirements
concerningkvalitet,
the product’s
quality,
that the product
with the
e
­ nvironmental
label
is at
Derudover
stiller
EUsets
Ecolabel
krav om produktets
således
at detso
miljømærkede
produkt
er mindst
lige så godt
som
least
as good as the non-labelled
det ikke-mærkede
alternativ. alternative.
www.ec.europa.eu/environment/ecolabel/

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



EU Ecolabel

Oeko-Tex
Oeko-Tex

Oeko-Tex
the
world’sførende
leadingsundhedsmærkning
health label for textiles.
The label
certifies
thatatthe
itemerwas
tested
and approved
onde
the
b
­ asis
Oeko-Texiser
verdens
for tekstiler.
Mærket
viser,
varen
testet
og godkendt
ud fra
krav,
ofden
theinternationale
requirements Oeko-Tex®-forening
set by the international
association.
These
requirements
content
chemicals
harOeko-Tex
stillet. Krav,
der drejer
sig om
indholdet afconcern
­kemiskethe
stoffer,
derofkan
– eller miswhich
canfor
– or
suspected
being able
to – damage
the body.
The labelend
goes
further than
law, and
the requirements
tænkes
at are
kunne
– skadeof
kroppen.
Mærkningen
er mere
omfattende
lovgivningen,
ogthe
kravene
er opdelt
i fire klasser
are
divided af
into
four classes
depending
thepå
textile’s
use
(how closeer).
to Nogle
the body
they
are). The
substances
afhængig
tekstilets
anvendelse
(hvorontæt
kroppen
tekstilerne
af de
stoffer,
der er
krav om, in
er question
eksempelvis
­include,
for example,
formaldehyde,
­residues
with anpesticider,
acidic or basic
action,
pesticides,
phenols,
heavy metals,
formaldehyd,
kemikalierester
med chemical
sur eller basisk
virkning,
fenoler,
tungmetaller,
særlige
farvestoffer
samt
­special
dyes and phthalates.
ftalater.
www.oeko-tex.com

Cradle to Cradle
Cradle to Cradle

Cradle to cradle (C2C) concerns the way we view our resources (extraction, use, disposal) and works to create a closed cycle
Cradle to Cradle (C2C) gør op med den måde, hvorpå ressourcer anskues (udvind, brug, smid væk) og a
­ rbejder for at skabe
with either technical or biological nutrients. The concept was formulated by the German Michael Braungart and the American
lukkede kredsløb med enten tekniske eller biologiske næringsstoffer. Konceptet
William McDonough in 2002, but ideas underlying the concept are now shared in a number of circles.
er formuleret af tyskeren Michael Braungart og amerikaneren William McDonough i 2002, men ideerne
bag konceptet breder sig nu i flere kredse.
A C2C certification assesses the product in relation to five categories: renewable energy, water consumption, the materials’
En C2C-certificering vurderer produktet i forhold til fem kategorier: fornybar energi, vandforbrug, materialernes sundhed,
health properties, social responsibility, and recycling. The result is certification at one of five l­evels.
social ansvarlighed og materialegenanvendelse. Resultatet er en certificering på ét af fem niveauer. Ordningen administreThe scheme is administered by The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute.
res af The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute.
www.epea.com
www.c2ccertified.org
www.mbdc.com

Management
systems:
ISOISO14001
9001, ISO
Ledelsessystemer:
ISO 9001,
og 14001
EMAS

ISO
both standards
forfor
quality
and environmental
management
under
a companykan
canvælge
choose
ISO9001
9001and
og ISO
ISO 14001
14001are
er begge
standarder
henholdsvis
kvalitets- og
miljøledelse,
somwhich
en virksomhed
at
certification.
Both standards
are based
on the bygger
principle
making continuous
improvements
which are ved
created
by implementlade sig certificere
efter. Begge
standarder
påofprincippet
om at skabe
løbende forbedringer
at gennemføre
en
ing
a fixed
cycle:
the current
situation
is evaluated,
goals mål
are set
policiespolitikker,
formulated,
the required
actions are
implemented,
fast
cyklus:
nuværende
situation
vurderes,
der sættes
og and
formuleres
nødvendige
handlinger
implementeres,
and
result
is measured.
On the basis
of the
result, an
assessment
is made
of whether
actions andoggoal
adequate,
og finally
til slutthe
måles
resultatet.
På baggrund
af dette
vurderes
det,
om handlinger
og mål
er tilstrækkelige,
derare
foretages
orforbedringer
whether improvements
should
made
new goals
set. ISO 9001
focuses
on parameters
of significance
for a company’s
og sættes nye
mål.be
ISO
9001and
f­ okuserer
på parametre
med
betydning
for en virksomheds
kvalitetsperformance,
performance
with respect
quality,
while
concerns
the matters of significance
the company’s
environmental
mens ISO 14001
vedrørertode
forhold,
derISO
har14001
betydning
for miljøpræstationen.
I dette erfor
audit
et væsentligt
redskab til at
importantfungerer
tool in this
is the
audit, which is an assessment of whether the systems are functioning as planned.
­performance.
vurdere, om An
systemerne
efter
planen.
EMAS (the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) har mange paralleller til ISO14001, eftersom alle krav i ISO 14001 er
www.iso.org
indbygget i EMAS. På nogle områder er ordningen dog mere ambitiøs; eksempelvis stilles der krav om en offentliggjort
miljøredegørelse og målbare miljømæssige forbedringer år for år.

EMAS
EMAS (the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) has many parallels with ISO 14001 as all the latter’s r­ equirements are
included in EMAS. In some areas, the scheme is, however, more ambitious. For example,
Gabriel: 10 års garanti
a published environmental account and measurable environmental improvements year by year are required.
Gabriel yder 10 års garanti mod gennemslidning på alle møbelstoffer i prislisten ved normal kontor- eller hjemmebrug, normal vedligeholdelse samt velegnet polstring. Mærket er designet af Gabriel.
ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/
Endvidere har Gabriel en omfattende pletfjerningsguide, som også kan bruges til at holde tekstilet flot og rent.

Gabriel: Ten-year guarantee

Gabriel:
Fri for
Tungmetaller
Gabriel
provides
a ten-year
guarantee against wear-through on all furniture fabrics in the price list under normal office or
Mærket
udviklet
af Gabrieland
tilbage
i 1980’erne
for at signalere
over was
for kunderne,
at Gabriel.
Gabriel kunne t­ ilbyde farveprohome
use,blev
normal
maintenance
appropriate
upholstering.
The label
designed by
grammer uden brug af tungmetaller. Gabriel var den første danske tekstilproducent til
at introducere
og i dag anvendes
der ikkeguide
tungmetaller
at farve
kollektionerne.
Gabriel
also hasdette,
a comprehensive
spot removal
which cantilalso
be used
to keep the fabric clean and a
­ ttractive in the
Sidenofdengang
er miljømærkerne kommet til, og de regulerer også grænseværdier for tungmetaller. M
­ ærket bruges også
event
an accident.
som et symbol på vores tradition for at gå forrest i branchen.

Gabriel: No heavy metals
The label was developed by Gabriel back in the 1980s to signal to customers that Gabriel can offer ranges of dyes which are free of
heavy metals. Gabriel was the first Danish textile manufacturer to introduce this, and no heavy metals are now used in our dyes.
Since then, the environmental labels have appeared, and they also govern the limit values for heavy metals.
The label is also still used as a symbol of our tradition of taking the lead in the sector.

15

Quality and environmental management systems

Gabriel is certified under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and EMAS. This
ensures systematic control of all parameters in product development and production, and ongoing performance ­improvements.
Gabriel’s quality and environmental management system is
designed in accordance with the standards and is based on

the company’s core processes. To support core processes, the
system covers the company’s management processes and support
­processes for all business units (Masters). The processes are
documented in the system and continuously updated.

Gabriel’s process outline
Gabriel’s quality and environmental management system
Managerial processes

Core processes

Supporting processes
– strategic
business units

16

Strategy
process

Employee
information

Management
follow-up

Resource
optimisation

Investor
relations

Shareholders,
analysts, etc.

A and B1
customers

KAM from potential to
regular customer relations

Product and process innovation

– from conception to product ready
for sale/new process

A customers

All
customers

Logistics from customer order
to product supplied

Price competitiveness
lowest cost

Suppliers

KAM-Master

SampleMaster

DesignMaster

FurnMaster

QEP-Master

LogisticsMaster

InnovationMaster

MarketingMaster

TransportMaster

FinanceMaster

Gabriel
Asia Pacific

Gabriel
Erhvervspark

HR-Master

ProjectMaster

Technology and
Facilities

Gabriel GmbH

UAB
FurnMaster

FurnMaster
Sp. z o.o.

Innovation and value-adding partnerships are the foundation of
Gabriel’s mission, and this is also reflected in the way we work
with environmental impacts. Gabriel wants to be the primary
customers’ preferred development partner so that the customer
sees it as natural to turn to Gabriel for advice on new c­ hallenges.
Gabriel is able to solve environmental tasks throughout the
product’s life cycle through close cooperation with partners,
and knowledge sharing in the supplier chain is an important
strength. Gabriel also wants to inspire customers to take new
pathways by offering new solutions which can benefit their business. ­Gabriel’s policies are determined on the basis that Gabriel
wants to be a leader in the area and wants the policies to go
further than the limits required by law. This protects G
­ abriel’s
products against more stringent requirements under the law
because the company is already at the forefront when new requirements are made mandatory.

development processes. In the product development process, high
priority is also given to Cradle to Cradle and r­ecycling of ­materials
as important drivers of development. To increase knowledge of
the possibilities within this area, Gabriel is for example participating in a PhD research project on circular business models.

There is a close working relationship between the Masters in
Gabriel on development of new products. Gabriel’s QEP-Master
(Quality, Environment and Production) is involved at an early stage
in the course of development, ensuring that requirements and
new possibilities are elucidated and integrated into the product

In recent years, QEP-Master has used its expertise to guide
­external partners who are not involved in Gabriel’s traditional
value chains. This helps to develop the work on quality and
the environment for these partners while also extending QEP-­
Master’s area of business

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION

Gabriel has a long-standing partnership with various knowledge
partners, including Dansk Mode & Textil, Network for Sustainable
Business Development in Northern Denmark, EPEA Hamburg
and Aalborg University as some of the more important partners.
On more than one occasion, Gabriel’s active participation in networks has resulted in Gabriel gaining influence on the future
agenda and legislation, e.g. during the recent revision of the EU
Ecolabel. Gabriel is also a member of the industry organisation
Dansk Mode og Tekstil’s CSR committee for the promotion of
CSR in the industry.

Development and innovation: Goals and results
Goals 2013/14

Results 2013/14

Extend customer portfolio for external
consultancy.
	
Ensure consolidation of methods
and extend the description of services
in ­the quality and environmental
­management system.

Through the Network for Sustainable­
­Business Development in Northern
­Denmark, QEP provided advice to 11
­businesses on e.g. strategic planning
of sustainable business development.

Continue the work on further developing
the LCA (life-cycle assessment) models
and results with a view to publishing
the key conclusions, and incorporate
them in Gabriel’s environmental
management system.

LCA was carried out in a partnership with
one of Gabriel’s top customers, confirming
Gabriel’s own conclusions.

Gabriel’s management system was
­ pdated to include service descriptions
u
concerning external consultancy.

Environmental considerations are ­
handled via the environmental
management ­system.

Goals 2014/15

­

Developments within the area
of ­offering external consultancy ­
continue, and new possibilities and
­partners are ­considered. Participation
in external networks as a mean to
create new contacts and partnerships
is constantly investigated.

Form a partnership with Aalborg U
­ niversity
for the purpose of ­investigating environmental conditions and incorporating the
most important results into Gabriel’s
environmental m
­ anagement system. In the
2014/15 financial year, ­Gabriel will form a
partnership on p
­ rojects involving a circular
economy and on a life cycle analysis of the
new upholstery material, Zenxit.

17

WORKING ENVIRONMENT

Gabriel must be able to attract and retain employees with the
right skills and knowledge required for the continued creation of
innovation and growth as an international company. Gabriel gives
priority to everyone using, developing and sharing knowledge
and skills. All employees are familiarised with Gabriel’s vision,
strategy, targets and activity plans and are regularly updated on
their work situation as part of employee development dialogues
and employee meetings. This ensures that all employees work
in accordance with clear goals and areas of responsibility, and
that their professional and personal development is stimulated.
Job satisfaction is a continuous focus area for Gabriel, and even
higher priority has been accorded to this theme through the
­initiation of the process “From stress to job satisfaction”. All
Masters have identified areas of initiatives for the purpose of

maintaining and improving job satisfaction and avoiding stress,
and they are working with the area as an ongoing process. In
­addition, a large number of Gabriel’s employees have been trained
in first aid and in the use of defibrillators.
Gabriel aims to be an attractive workplace for all employees and
assumes a social responsibility in the local community. Gabriel acts
as a socially committed workplace by providing flex jobs, training
places and trial jobs. Gabriel is also active in health promotion,
including focus on healthy food in the canteen. ­Employees are
among others offered free fruit, there is an annual subsidy for
sports activities, and participation is arranged in the annual DHL
relay race in Aalborg. In addition, a health insurance scheme is
offered to all employees.

Working environment: Goals and results
Goals 2013/14
Hold all mandatory employee appraisal
and half-yearly follow-up interviews.

All mandatory interviews were held.

Registration and analysis of absences
due to sickness and initiation of actions
based on the result.

Registration of absences due to sickness
was initiated.

Objectives 2013/14

Results 2013/14

Carry out a job satisfaction investigation
and analyse the result.

Instead of carrying out a job satisfaction
measurement, the project “From stress
to job satisfaction” was carried out, and
new guidelines were implemented in the
company’s management system.

Give the working environment
area higher priority and implement
it as part of the roll-out of Gabriel’s
updated quality and environmental
management system.

Initiatives to improve the working
­ nvironment were taken as part of
e
­Gabriel’s job satisfaction project and
i­mplemented in Gabriel’s quality and
­environmental management system.

Increased focus on transport and
­transport safety, since they represent
an important aspect of the global
­working environment.

18

Results 2013/14

The work to improve transport safety
resulted in an update of policies for safe
transport in Gabriel’s emergency plan.

Goals 2014/15

­

Hold all mandatory employee
appraisal interviews and half-yearly
­follow-up interviews.

The results of these registrations have been
analysed and are used actively.

Objectives 2014/15

­

The workplace assessment, which is a
­continuous activity, will focus this year
on areas of initiative from the project
“From stress to job satisfaction”.

The goal has been achieved, and the
­implemented initiatives will be
maintained in the future.

Gabriel’s head office is situated at the location where it all started
in 1851. The old buildings have been converted into bright offices
with a sound and interesting working environment. The b
­ uildings
are owned by Gabriel Ejendomme A/S that is responsible for
operation of the buildings.
The buildings now functions as Gabriel’s modern head office
and the workplace for a large number of other tenants. As of
30 September 2014, Gabriel Ejendomme A/S has rented out
about 6,200 m2, corresponding to almost full occupation of the
­renovated building area.
Gabriel Ejendomme A/S is currently converting its head office
into a large business park, which in due course will accommodate
up to 700 workplaces. At the end of the 2013/14 financial year,
the demolition of older, worn-out buildings had been started, to
be replaced by new, more sustainable premises which take the
­electricity and heating consumption into account. The demolition

is the first part of a project which in due course aims at increasing
the business park from 6,000 m2 to 19,000 m2, accommodating a
further 500 workplaces in addition to the current 200.

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



Gabriel erhvervsPark

The most important direct environmental impacts related to
­Gabriel’s activities arise in connection with the company’s
­activities at the business park address. These are energy, heat
and water consumption and generation of waste. An allocation
scheme has been developed for environmental impacts from the
various tenants in Gabriel Erhvervspark: at the end of the fi
­ nancial
year, Gabriel’s share amounted to 54% of the total property area.
This statement details the business park’s total consumption, as
many of the facilities are shared.
Gabriel no longer needs special environmental permits to emit
waste water etc. because there is no longer any production in
Aalborg. The requirements regarding noise specified by the City
of Aalborg are complied with. The terms are given under Notes.

Gabriel Erhvervspark: Goals and results
Goals 2013/14
Maintain consumption of heat ­
at 251 MWh.

Gabriel Erhvervspark prospectus.

Results 2013/14
The heat consumption was reduced to
an annual consumption of 144 MWh. The
significant decrease was caused primarily
by the demolition of worn-out buildings.

Goals 2014/15

­

Due to the conversion of the business
park, no goals have been set for the
­future heating consumption in this financial year. This aspect will be ­considered
in the new buildings. G
­ abriel is testing an
energy management system for continuous monitoring of consumption.

19

consolidated data

The statement covers the period 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014.

	

2013/14	2012/13	2011/12	2010/11	2009/10

ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AALBORG
Key indicators and environmental data
District heating (m3)	
District heating (MWh)	
Calculated CO2 emissions (tons)	
Calculated SO2 emissions (tons)	

13,333 (1)	23,192	23,205	31,655	35,587
144	250	251	342	384
53	 92	 86	117	131
<1	<1	<1	<1	<1

Electricity (MWh)	
Calculated CO2 emissions (tons)	
Calculated SO2 emissions (tons)	
Proportion renewable electricity (%)	

555	548	532	435	405
209	166	201	194	181
<1	<1	<1	<1	<1
35(2)	24	26	

Total energy (MWh)	
Calculated CO2 emissions (tons)	

699	799	782	777	790
262	258	287	311	312

Waste water (m3)	

1,178	1,053	1,029	 860	1,421

Waste
Industrial waste (tons)	
Cardboard for recycling (tons)	
Plastic for recycling (tons)	

28.5(3)	15.3	14.5	16.4	22.0
22	 2	4.3	5.1	5.5
0.5	 0	1.2	 0	1.2

Site use
Total lot size (m2)	
Developed area (m2)	
Roads and car park (m2)	

31,760	31,860	31,860	31,860	31,860
4,314(4)	9,530	9,530	9,530	9,530
3,715	3,715	3,715	3,715	3,715

CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS
Wool goods (tons)	
Polyester goods (tons)	

792	758	727	947	664
798	670	531	346	341

TRANSPORT
Proportion of transport by sea (%) 	

91.2	98.5	99.1	75.4	68.6

PRODUCT LABELLING
Proportion Oeko-Tex (%)	
Proportion EU Ecolabel (%)	

71	80
43	40

ENVIRONMENTAL DATA UAB SCANDYE
Data regarding UAB Scandye’s environmental impacts are found on page 13 of this report.

The significant decrease was caused primarily by the demolition of worn-out buildings.
 he fuel composition of one kWh average current in Denmark consisted in 2013 of 38% coal, 10% natural gas, 35% wind, water and solar energy,
T
14%. waste, biomass and biogas, 1% oil and 2% nuclear power (www.energinet.dk).
(3)
The significant increase was caused primarily by the emptying of worn-out buildings in connection with demolition.
(1)
(2)

(4)

20

The significant decrease was caused by the demolition of worn-out buildings.

Accounting policies
This CSR and environmental report was prepared in compliance with the requirements of the EMAS regulation. Information in the report is
based on data from ongoing internal and external readings and reports under the environmental management system. The environmental report
­includes both absolute quantities and key figures.

CSR & Environmental Report 2013/14



NOTES: MEASURING METHODS AND BASIS OF CALCULATIONS

Key indicators
The reporting of key data follows EMAS-III recommendations to express the value A (the total annual input/impacts in the area in question), the
value B (the total annual output) and the value R (the ratio between A and B).
Energy
When converting m3 of district heating to kWh, a cooling of 35ºC is used. The calculation of CO2 emissions for Aalborg is based on the e
­ nvironmental
declaration from Aalborg District Heating. The district heating used is primarily waste heat from the production of electricity. The proportion of
electricity from renewable sources is based on information in Energinet.dk’s General Declaration on Electricity. Emissions related to the ­production
of electricity are based on Energinet.dk’s Environment Declaration on Electricity for Green Accounts. Emissions of NOx and CH4 are not included
as the quantities emitted are judged to be insignificant.
Waste water
Waste water emissions in Aalborg equal the purchased quantity of public potable water.
Waste
Waste recorded does not include construction and metallic waste from renovation of buildings and machinery.
Site use
Data for site use derive from the Ministry of Housing, Urban and Rural Affairs’ register. The undeveloped area consists of a park area bordering
the stream, which was a premise for the chosen location in 1851.
Consumption of raw materials
The stated consumption of raw materials includes waste during production, which was approximately 5%. Commodities are also included.
Transport
The transport breakdown into sea and air for goods produced in China is calculated on the basis of invoices for carriage. The breakdown is
­calculated on the basis of the transports’ total weight in kg. Transport is computed by calendar year and does not follow the financial year. This
means that the figure computed for 2012/13 indicates data from 2013. The figure computed for 2013/14 is thus not the final result for the year,
and it could still change.
Product labelling
The proportion of labelled products is calculated by computing the total number of products in Gabriel’s standard range on 1.10.2014 relative to
the total number of products labelled with either the EU Ecolabel or Oeko-Tex.
		
H1	
H1	Allotment gardens 	
		
Kærby – light industry	
Kærby – residences 	
K.P.till.2.33	

B1	R1		
Kærby	Frydendal

Day	
Monday-Friday	
06.00-18.00	
Saturday	
07.00-14.00	
Saturday	
14.00-18.00	
Sunday and public holidays 	07.00-18.00	

60	
60	
60	
60	

55	
55	
45	
45	

50	
50	
45	
45	

45	
45	
40	
40	

50
50
45
45

Evening	
All days	

60	

45	

45	

40	

45

60	

40	

40	

35	

45

60	
55	

40	
55	

40	
50	

35	
55

45

18.00-22.00	

Night	
Monday-Friday	
22.00-06.00	
Saturday, Sunday
and public holidays	
22.00-07.00	
Maximum noise level at night
	
	

The specified limit values for noise are based on the assumption that they will be observed within the following periods:
The limit values for the day period 07.00-18.00 (06.00-18.00 Monday-Friday) must be observed within the noisiest eight-hour period.
In the evening from 18.00-22.00, the limit values must be observed within the hour with the highest noise level.
For the night period 22.00-07.00 (22.00-06.00 Monday-Friday), the limit values must be observed within the noisiest half hour.

21

DNV BUSINESS ASSURANCE

Statement of performed verification and validation acc. EMAS III
Verification No. 157367-2014-AE-DEN-DANAK
for

Gabriel A/S

Registration number: DK-000048

Hjulmagervej 55, 9000 Aalborg, Denmark
This verification and validation is valid for the following activity, product and service areas:

Development, manufacturing and sale of upholstery fabrics, components, upholstered
surfaces and related products and services
NACE rev. 2: 13.92

•

•
•
•
•

It is hereby confirmed that:

DNV has verified that the on-site-area or the entire organisation as specified in the environmental statement / the updated environmental statement from the
organisation meets all the requirements of European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of 25 November 2009 allowing voluntary participation
in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS III).

the verification and validation is performed in full compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009
the outcome of the verification and validation confirms that there are no signs of non-compliance with applicable environmental legislation
data and information in the organisation / the site's environmental statement / the updated gives a reliable, credible and accurate picture of all organisational/on-sitearea operations within the scope specified in the statement.
data and information are reliable and satisfactorily cover all issues in the original edition of the Danish version of The Environmental Statement: Miljøredegørelse,
dated 6th November 2014

Place and date:

Hellerup, 2014-11-14
DET NORSKE VERITAS,

Verification is valid until:

2016-02-16

The verification and validation
is performed by:

Tommy Lund
Lead Auditor

DANAK

BUSINESS ASSURANCE, DANMARK A/S

DK-V-6001

Anders Lindgren
Managing Director

Verifier does not vouch for translation into other languages. This Paper can not be equated with the EMAS registration. EMAS registration can only be made by the competent body of
under Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009.
This document may not in itself be used as a communication to the public
ACCREDITED UNIT: DET NORSKE VERITAS, BUSINESS ASSURANCE, DANMARK A/S, TUBORG PARKVEJ 8, 2., DK-2900, HELLERUP, DANMARK, TEL:+45 39 45 48 00,

22

WWW.DNVBA.COM

Gabriel A/S
Holding A/S
Hjulmagervej 55
DK-9000 Aalborg
Phone: +45 9630 3100
www.gabriel.dk

