Environmental Report 2010/11

Ahrend office furniture
with Gaja C2C upholstery

Gabriel is the first Danish company to obtain cradle to cradle certification - an entirely
new interpretation of sustainability. Gaja is thus an exquisite and environmentally
friendly textile which is C2C and Oeko-Tex certified and which also carries the EU
Ecolabel. 

Environmental Report 2010/11

Sound green arguments for using
quality furniture fabrics from Gabriel
Gabriel is Europe’s biggest manufacturer of environmentally labelled quality furniture fabrics.

Gabriel’s environmental management is certified under DS/EN
ISO 14001:2004.

Gabriel does its own processing, starting with New Zealand
wool and ending with the finished fabric ready for use in upholstering.

Gabriel’s quality management is certified under DS/EN ISO
9001:2000, the international standard for quality management.

The purpose of this environmental report is to provide information for our users, customers, employees, the authorities, shareholders, the local community and others interested in environmental conditions at Gabriel.

Shearing

Scouring

Bleaching

Carding

Spinning

Yarn dyeing

Twisting

Weaving

Wet processing

Dyeing

Finishing

Dispatch

Cutting out

Sewing/
making up

Upholstering

Use

Recycling
or disposal

02

Environmental Report 2010/11

Contents
Company information.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	04
Gabriel’s profile. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	05
Objectives for quality and the environment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	11
Environmental policy. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	11
Environmental management system .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	11
Management’s environmental report .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	12
Working environment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	15
Employee participation.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	 15
Environmental approvals.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	15
Environmental action programme 2011/2012 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	16
Further information.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	16
Accounting policies. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	16
Environmental auditor’s certificate .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	17
Environmental data .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	18
Notes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 	19

03

Environmental Report 2010/11

Company information
Company:		
Gabriel A/S
			Hjulmagervej 55
			9000 Aalborg
			Reg. no. 176574
			VAT no. 12721307
			
Ph.: +45 9630 3100
			
Fax.: +45 9813 2544
			www.gabriel.dk
			E-mail: mail@gabriel.dk
			
Group relationships:	
Gabriel A/S is a wholly owned subsidiary of the
			
listed company Gabriel Holding A/S.
Sector:	 		Textile industry
Principal activities:	
			

Production of furniture fabrics including
the processes of dyeing and finishing.

Legislation:		
			
	
Supervisory authority:	

Gabriel’s activities in Denmark are covered by environmental legislation and
regulations established by the City of Aalborg.

Financial year: 		

01.10.10 - 30.09.11

City of Aalborg

Number of employees: 	64
	
External auditor and	
Dansk Standard Certificering
accredited environmental
verification:
NACE code:		

13.92 - Manufacture of made-up textile articles, except apparel

Area in use: According to information provided by the Danish Building and Dwelling Register, Gabriel's total area has
been calculated at 31,860 square metres. The building/paved area covers 9,530 square metres, of which 3,715
square metres consist of roads and parking areas. The undeveloped area consists of a park area bordering the river,
which was a precondition for choosing the company’s location in 1851.

04

Environmental Report 2010/11

Gabriel’s profile
P h i losop h y
Innovation and value-creating partnerships are keywords in
Gabriel’s philosophy.
Gabriel is a niche company which develops, manufactures and
sells furniture fabrics and related technical textiles and components
for areas of use in which there are mandatory requirements concerning special product properties, design, logistics, and documented
quality and environmental management.

V is i on
•	Gabriel will be the preferred development partner and supplier
to selected leading international manufacturers and major consumers of upholstered furniture, seats and upholstered surfaces.
•	Gabriel will achieve Blue Ocean status through an innovative
business concept, patents, licences or similar rights.
•	Gabriel will achieve the status of an attractive workplace and
partner company for competent employees and companies.

Fi nanci al targe ts
Gabriel aims to achieve:
•	A return on invested capital (ROIC) of minimum 15% before tax.
•	An increasing operating margin (EBIT margin).
•	An average annual increase in earnings per share of minimum
15%.
•	An average annual increase in revenue of minimum 15%.

User groups
Gabriel’s sales are focused on two user groups in particular:
•	 Contract (office furniture and seats for means of transport,
theatres, concert halls, cinemas, auditoriums, hospitals and care
institutions etc.).
•	 Home (furniure for private homes).

G row t h s t rat egy –
Ga b r i el i s grow i ng w i t h t h e b i gges t
Gabriel’s growth is based on partnerships with selected key accounts in a global strategy.
Gabriel aims to obtain the highest proportion of every single Key
Account’s purchase of furniture fabrics, other processed components and related services in the value chain.
Possible acquisitions, alliances and new business areas are constantly assessed for the purpose of improving the group’s competitiveness and value creation.

Corporat e mo d el
Gabriel’s focus on innovation and value-creating partnerships is
ensured through accurately selected and efficient management systems, core processes and a high level of expertise.

Gabriel’s value-creation model
Operating margin
(%)

Finance

Market share

Revenue
growth

Return on invested
capital

Earnings
growth
Invested
capital

Potential

Customers

Processes

Innovation
and learning

Satisfaction
Key Account/Distributor/End user
Global Account
Management

Logistics

Product and
process innovation

Competent
employees/partners

Price
competitiveness

KnowledgeLearning in
the organisation

Satisfaction
employees/partners

Understanding
the strategy

Resource
optimisation

User
groups
IT platform
development
Generating ideas,
and analyses

Gabriel’s history, philosophy and vision

05

Environmental Report 2010/11

support processes.

The point of departure for Gabriel’s value-creation model is the use
of the following Balanced Scorecard Model (applied since 2003)
and the four perspectives:

The core processes have been selected on the basis of the
group’s strategy, and leading and lagging indicators (KPIs) have
been set for each of the selected core processes:

The financial perspective describes Gabriel’s targets for the
return on invested capital (ROIC), specifically defined revenue potential at selected Gabriel customers and targets for growth in sales
and earnings.

The customer perspective is entirely about customer satisfac-

•	Key Account Management (KAM)
•	Logistics
•	Product- and process innovation
•	Price competitiveness

tion. Lagging indicators only have been set for both perspectives,
and these are supported by leading indicators in the core and

In innovation and learning a continuous focus on innovation
and learning is ensured for all employees, with a competent basis
as the point of departure.

Overview of Gabriel’s processes
Management
processes

Core processes

Support processes
- strategic
business units

Strategy
process

Information for
employees

Management
follow-up

Resource
optimisation

Investor
Relations

A and B1
customers

KAM - from potential to
ongoing customer relationship

Product and process innovation
- from concept to product ready for sale/
new process

All
customers

Logistics - from customer’s order
to product delivery

Price competitiveness
Lowest cost price

KAM-Master

SampleMaster

DesignMaster

FurnMaster

QEP-Master

InnovationMaster

MarketingMaster

IT-Master

FinanceMaster

Gabriel China

HR-Master

ProjectMaster

Suppliers and

Technology and

partners

plant

Shareholders
Analysts etc.

A-customers

Suppliers

LogisticsMaster
Gabriel
Business Park

TransportMaster

Overv i ew of Ga b r i el’s processes
– S t rat eg i c b us i ness un i ts
Gabriel’s corporate model requires a process-oriented method of
work which has been introduced in the organisation over several
years. Some of the support processes are carried out by independent, and ever more important, strategic business units (Masters)
with their own visions, objectives, strategies and budgets.
The business units are operated as independent profit centres
working on the basis of their own philosophies, visions, goals,
strategies, action plans and budgets. Transfer pricing between the
units is at market prices and in competition with external suppliers.
The individual profit centres have the right and the duty to increase
earnings through external trading with goods and services, where
relevant, and the individual business units in Gabriel are expected
to buy their services on the most competitive terms – inside and
outside the Gabriel group.

The goals of operating parts of the group as strategic business units
are as follows:
•	To find new roads to future growth without losing focus on realising the general strategy of the core processes.
•	To achieve a constant increase in the return on invested capital.
•	To become less dependent on overheads in our core business.
•	To ensure competitiveness in the part of the value chain from
concept to furniture user where Gabriel participates.

FurnMaster (established in 2003/04) offers subcontracting in
the form of logistics solutions, cutting, sewing, upholstering and
assembly of furniture and screens for Gabriel’s Key Accounts. The
business unit contributed an increase to the consolidated profit, making up more than 10% of the consolidated revenue in 2010/11.
The business unit’s growth potential is distinct and realised by carrying out the strategy “Applied furniture fabrics”.

06

Environmental Report 2010/11

Gabriel China (established in 2003), which consists of Gabriel’s representation office and the trading company Gabriel (Tianjin)
International Trading Co., Ltd., sources products and services for
Gabriel in Europe and develops and sells products and services to
leading furniture manufacturers in Asia and the USA.
In 2010/11, a considerable increase was realised in both sourcing
and sales activities, and Gabriel China’s growth rates continued
through sales to local leading manufacturers on the Chinese market
and to other Asian and North American markets.

SampleMaster (established in 2000/01) develops and manufactures sample and sales materials and value-creating solutions
in the form of effective and attractive sales tools. Despite a stable
revenue in the business unit in 2010/11, the contribution to the
consolidated profit increased. The business unit is expected to be
able to generate growth in both revenue and profit in 2011/12.
Gabriel Ejendomme A/S – Gabriel Business Park (formed
in 2011), which comprises the group’s property complex in the centre of Aalborg, develops and rents out office premises to internal
and external tenants.
Gabriel A/S was awarded the prize by the Committee on prize
awards for buildings in Aalborg “for its respectful renovation of
the old factory buildings, which underpins Aalborg’s transformation
from industrial city to knowledge city”.

InnovationMaster (established in 2006/07) continued its work
in 2010/11 on development projects which hold a considerable,
although uncertain, earnings potential. The projects concentrate
on developing technical textiles and related products which are
expected to be used mainly within Gabriel’s existing value chain.
At the beginning of the 2011/12 financial year, one of InnovationMaster’s projects is about to be transferred to Gabriel Innovation
A/S. Gabriel Innovation A/S was formed in 2008 with the object
of continuing innovation projects from Innovation Master as independently sustainable business units.
In addition to the product-oriented innovation processes, Innovation Master was the originator of considerable innovation within
internal processes which was implemented in 2010/11 to support
Gabriel’s total competitiveness.

DesignMaster (established in 2006/07) carries out regular
design-based development and consultancy activities which take
our customers’ and end users’ requests, requirements and behaviour as their starting point. The background is fundamental market
knowledge and targetet research based on a “time-to-market” of
3-18 months.
The projects are carried out in Gabriel’s existing value chain with
the aim of realising and communicating the potential contained in
the application of upholstery textiles and techniques and related
products. Activities are initiated and carried out regularly in which
core competences such as textile construction and finishing, upholstery design and technology are applied.

The colour range for Pixel 2 has been updated with great new colours.

07

Environmental Report 2010/11

Design and manufacturing of complete furniture components are
also part of the solutions offered to customers.

derwent several changes in 2010/11 including the implementation
of a new IT platform to ensure the present and future high standard.

On the basis of the theme “Applied furniture fabrics” and through
targeted communication of Gabriel’s innovation and development
strategy, close relationships have been established with selected
furniture manufacturers’ designers, development teams and decision makers.

At the beginning of the financial year, the reliability of delivery
was below the usual Gabriel standard because the change of
ERP system required changes to central processes which could not
be finally tested prior to go-live. During the last nine months of the
financial year, the reliability of delivery was reestablished at the
maximum level, and it is now stable at over 98% relative to the
delivery date requested by the customer.

At the beginning of the 2011/12 financial year, DesignMaster had
tasks in progress which were initiated internally as well as external
tasks for several of Gabriel’s Key Accounts.

KAM-Master (established in 2006/07) coordinates the partnership between the individual Key Account’s organisation and
Gabriel’s business units for the purpose of creating maximum value
in the long term for each Key Account and KAM-Master. Gabriel’s
Key Account Managers were organised in 2010/11 as six independent business units, each managing and controling activities for
selected customers in their area.

LogisticsMaster (established in 2006/07) handles stock control
and the flow of goods in the entire value chain from raw product
through textile to the completed piece of furniture as the key support function in logistics, one of Gabriel’s core processes.
The purpose of the core process logistics is to ensure a high level
of delivery performance to all of Gabriel’s customers. Logistics un-

TransportMaster (established in 2009/10) is responsible for
transport services and for continuously ensuring optimal freight conditions for all of Gabriel’s business units and customers.

IT-Master (established in 2006/07) ensures that all operating
systems are running and support Gabriel’s strategic development.

FinanceMaster (established in 2006/07) is responsible for financial control and regular financial reporting. FinanceMaster
participates actively in visualising the value-creation in the entire
group, and is responsible for the company’s financial and risk management.

MarketingMaster (established in 2006/07) is a full-service advertising agency offering services to Gabriel’s other business units
and customers.

QEP-Master, Quality, Environment and Production, (established
in 2006/07) supports Gabriel’s business development by optimising quality and environmental matters in connection with products, services and processes. QEP will assume responsibility for

Luna 2 upholstering on ”Aline” from Inclass, Spain.

08

Environmental Report 2010/11

”One stop Gabriel” – innovation in the value chain
Concept

Design/
development

Raw
material

Yarn

Greige
piece

Dyeing
Finishing

Cutting
Sewing

Piece
Cut out
good/small fabric/sewn
quantities
upholstery

the quality of all products and services sold, and it supports its
customers with respect to quality and environmental matters in the
supply chain. QEP offers competences within quality and environmental management, product labelling, working environment and
production.

Technology and plant (established in 2006/07) handles services within repair and maintenance of textile machinery, including
all forms of blacksmith, mechanical and electrical work as well as
repair and maintenance of buildings. This service is offered to all
Gabriel’s business units and partners.

M anagemen t sys t ems
Gabriel has been DS/ISO 9001 and EMAS/ISO 14001 certified
since 1991 and 1996 respectively. Gabriel’s Chinese subsidiary
Gabriel ”Tianjin” International Trading Co. Ltd was DS/ISO 9001
and ISO 14001 certified in 2006.
In addition to the chosen corporate model, Balanced Score Card,
which was implemented in 2002, the following initiatives are significant and described in further detail on Gabriel’s website:
•	Key products EU environmentally labelled from 2003.
•	Development – Blue Ocean Strategy from 2005.
•	Innovation Cup participant in 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010 and
2011.
•	All of Gabriel divided into independent Master units from
2006/07.
•	First business in Denmark with C2C certification from November
2010.

Upholsterymaterial

UpholsteInstallation
ring

Gabriel
Contract

Key
Accounts

Fabric
installed on
components

Furniture
component

Gabriel
Home

Other
Accounts

Finished
piece of
furniture

Distributors

Furniture
users

were realised in 2010/11, which does not meet the company’s target of launching eight newly developed products in the 2010/11
financial year.

S taff d evelopmen t
Gabriel must be able to attract and retain staff with the right skills
and knowledge required to create innovation and growth as an
international company. Gabriel gives priority to everyone using,
developing and sharing knowledge and skills.
All staff members are informed regularly of Gabriel’s vision, strategy, goals and activity plans as well as on their work situation in
connection with appraisal interviews and department meetings.
This ensures that all staff members are working towards clear goals
and with clear responsibilities, and that their professional and personal development is stimulated.
The HR process received additional attention in the 2010/11 financial year with the establishment of the business unit HR-Master. HRMaster will contribute to an improved bottom line and to creating

Share of new products of revenue
and number of released products
	
	

Share of revenue in %
Number of released products

30
25

Value ch a i n
Gabriel’s value chain covers all steps from concept to furniture user.

Innovat i on
Under Gabriel’s Blue Ocean strategy, new products and services
should contain exceptionally functional or emotional utility value for
the user. Close interaction within Gabriel’s network of customers,
users, suppliers, consultants and competent employees ensures
evaluation of new ideas and possibilities.
Our goal is to ensure that at least 30% of revenue derives from products and services launched less than five years ago. In 2010/11,
these products and services amounted to 31%.

20
15
10
5
0

Realised Realised Realised Realised Realised
06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10
10/11

The number of released products serves as “early warners”. Six

09

Environmental Report 2010/11

The chairs in Aalborg Congress and Culture Centre are upholstered with Gabriel’s Chess Royal and Chess
Royal Prik designs.

a company consisting of employees who have a global mindset
and can navigate in an increasingly changeable everyday life.
HR-Master has assisted in recruiting ten new staff members for both
existing and new positions. Staff members with a high level of
expertise in terms of education and experience are continuously
recruited. Gabriel is happy to employ new graduates who contribute to forming the Gabriel of the future with new ideas and views.
Employee branding was also put on the agenda when Gabriel
participated for the first time in the nationwide annual career exhibition for new graduates. The large number of visitors confirmed
Gabriel’s position as an attractive potential workplace.

Services provided by Gabriel must correspond accurately to customer needs and expectations. The company’s production and distribution proceeds with due respect for a continuing reduction in
resource consumption and emissions which might impact upon the
environment. Gabriel’s position as a quality and environmentally
conscious company is evidenced by its certification under ISO
9001, ISO 14001 and the EMAS Eco-Management and Audit
Scheme.
It must be easy for Gabriel’s customers to choose environmentally
friendly and healthy products, and the company uses product labelling, i.e. the Flower environmental label and the Oeko-Tex health
label. The labelling scheme was chosen in view of consumers’ trust
in these schemes, and the latter’s recognition rate is increasing.

E mployee sat i sfac t i on
Gabriel makes an effort to be an attractive workplace for all
employees. Employee satisfaction measurements were therefore
re-introduced in 2011 for both Danish and foreign employees. The
average satisfaction measured on a scale from 1-5 was 4.

Board members elected by the employees
Under the Executive Order on the election of members by the
employees to the boards of directors in public limited companies,
employee board members and alternates are elected to the board
every four years. Currently, two employee board members and
two alternates are elected.

Søren Lyngsgaard, one of the founders of Cradle to Cradle (C2C)
in Denmark, noted in a press release that “Gabriel breaks the sound
barrier by leading the way as a benchmark textile company”. The
statement was made when Gabriel obtained C2C certification of
the company’s woolen furniture fabric Gaja, which is being launched in a special C2C range of 35 colours.
Please see www.gabriel.dk for further information on environmental matters and CSR.

Corporat e S oci al R espons i b i l i t y
CSR work is a natural part of the group’s work. To Gabriel, CSR
means that the company takes responsibility for creating value
which contributes, directly or indirectly, to a positive development
in society. The company endorses the principles specified in the
UN Global Compact.

10

Environmental Report 2010/11

Objectives for quality and the environment
Services provided by Gabriel must correspond accurately to customer needs and expectations. The company’s production and distribution will proceed with due respect for a continuing reduction
in resource consumption and emissions which might impact upon
the environment.
Gabriel will have a position as a quality and environmentally conscious company, which is evidenced by its certification under ISO
9001, ISO 14001 and the EMAS scheme.
Gabriel A/S is licensed to use the EU Ecolabel, which guarantees
the safety of employees during the production process, users of the
fabrics, and the environment.

environmental action programme must include energy considerations and ensure ongoing improvements in energy consumption.
The company’s general objectives are documented in a business
plan prepared once a year for the period 1/10 to 30/9. The business plan covers measurable environmental goals. These goals,
together with responsibility and competence, must be known by
all employees.
Cleaner technology and environmental improvements are introduced on an ongoing basis in the supply chains with due consideration of the technical and financial consequences, and pollution
must be prevented.
Gabriel conducts an open and close dialogue on environmental
requirements with the authorities. The company has a duty to respect relevant legislation and relevant statutory requirements in the
area of the environment as well as other provisions to which the
company has committed itself.
Gabriel prepares an environmental report at the end of the financial year. The report includes information on significant environmental impacts and objectives. The environmental report is available to
the public and distributed to all the company’s employees.
Those of the company’s employees in contact with customers are
able to provide accurate information on Gabriel’s environmental
objectives and policies. Guidance must be provided to customers
and users on significant environmental aspects of the use, re-use
and disposal of the company’s products.
The company’s subcontractors must be selected on their ability to
comply with environmental requirements and their willingness to enter into an open and close partnership to achieve optimal solutions.
Contractors working at Gabriel’s Aalborg site must comply with the
same environmental requirements applying to Gabriel.

The environmental management system
The environmental management system is an integral part of Gabriel’s total management system, which covers the company’s management, core and support processes.
The relationships between the individual processes are specified.
This applies to responsibility, input and output, and performance of
the various activities.

E nv i ronmen tal pol i c y
The environmental management system covers all functions at Gabriel, including the Aalborg site and all products and services supplied by the company.
Energy consumption has an important impact on the environment,
and energy management is an integral part of Gabriel’s environmental management. Energy management covers supply systems
with significant energy consumption. Environmental goals and the

The environmental management system applies to environmental
factors in the entire supply chain.
Gabriel’s management system is audited by Gabriel and Dansk
Standard. The audits include an evaluation of whether the system
is functioning in practice and complying with the requirements specified for it.

11

Environmental Report 2010/11

Management’s environmental report
The environmental work in 2010/11 yielded positive results in important aspects. It is necessary, however, to continue parts of the
environmental action programmes in 2011/12.
The following describes the implementation of the environmental
action programme for the year and the results relating to the environmental goals.

Measurable Improvement goals in Aalborg:

•	

Reduction of the current quantity of waste by at least 20%
from 22.0 tons to 17.6 tons. The goal was reached, as the
quantity of waste was reduced to 16.4 tons, a reduction of
25%.

•	

•	
•	

Measurable improvement goals at the dye works Scandye:

•	

•	

•	

Gaining C2C certification of a polyester product: Subprogramme not completed and will be a part of the 2011/12
environmental action proramme.
Preparing guidelines on how to use products to extend their
useful lives: A survey of the need for information was conducted among selected customers and users. Guidelines are
made available on Gabriel’s website.

Reduction of current water consumption by at least 3.6%, from
171 litres/kg to 165 litres/kg. Water consumption was 158
litres/kg, and the goal was thus reached. The reduction was
reached by acquiring new dyeing technology with low water
consumption which is suitable for making small product lines
to order.
Maintenance of current gas consumption at the current level
of 1.11 m3 natural gas/kg. Consumption was 1.03 m3 natural
gas/kg, and the goal was thus reached. The reduction was
reached through new finishing methods, few re-finishing jobs
and a positive effect from increased production quantities.
Reduction of current electricity consumption by at least 1.9%,
from 1.58 kWh/kg to 1.5 kWh/kg. Consumption was 1.34
kWh/kg, and the goal was thus reached. The reduction was
reached through a new finishing method and increasing production quantities.

Improvement projects - products:

•	

Expansion and marketing of product range with Cradle to
Cradle certified products: The main product Gaja is now
C2C marketed in a new big range of 35 colours. Comprehensive marketing material has been prepared, and Gabriel
presented the product as one of the main novelties at the international furniture exhibition in Stockholm in February 2012.

Performing LCA on selected main products based on the latest environmental data: Subprogramme not completed and
part of the 2011/12 environmental action proramme.

er	wool	fabric
Meet the 4 members of the Gaja Family.
Scan the code & watch the film.

r	wool	fabric
•	 Perfect	biological	cycle
CradleCM	Certified	Silve
•	 The	first	European	Cradle	to	 ew	Zealand
•	 100%	Pure	New	Wool	from	N
•	 Compostable	and	recyclable	
•	 EU	Ecolabel	and	Oeko-Tex
Gaja C2C - 01-12.indd

2

For more on Gaja C2C, see www.gabriel.dk

Improvement projects - manufacturing processes:

•	

An investigation of options including for the reduction of water consumption in the supply chains: An assessment of new
dyeing technologies was made at the visit to the international ITMA show for textile machinery. The dyeworks Scandye
has performed tests and introduced new dyeing technology
which has proved suitable for dyeing of apparel made for
customers other than Gabriel. The technology of the most
recent generation of dyeing machinery which is being used
continues to be optimal for Gabriel’s furniture fabrics in terms
of quality and the environment. Further water saving will be
achieved by continuously phasing out the oldest and biggest
dyeing machines in favour of the new technology. In addition,
Scandye invests in dyeing machines which are optimal for
small product lines made to order, which effectively reduces
water consumption.

the Gaja Family.
Meet the 4 members of
the film.
Scan the code & watch

15/02/12 15.16

15/02/12 15.16

12

Environmental Report 2010/11

Gabriel Business Park
Development of and training in the use of contingency plans and
communicating information to other owners in Gabriel Business
Park: The contingency plan has been updated and Gabriel’s
employees have been trained in how to use it. Other tenants have
been informed of the contents of the contingency plan and encouraged to train their employees in its use.
Reduction of energy requirements for cooling of server room: Gabriel has now outsourced all operation of IT servers. Tenants who
have servers placed in the Business Park want to be in charge
themselves of purchasing servers and cooling systems.
Development of allocation keys for environmental impacts between
the tenants in Gabriel Business Park: At the end of the financial
year, Gabriel’s employees made up 55% of the total number of
users of the property. The consumption of electricity, heating and
water concerning Gabriel’s activities is therefore considerably lower than the figures stated in this report. Determining principles and

methods which can relate these environmental impacts more accurately to the individual tenants is therefore part of the environmental
action programme for 2011/12: Gabriel continues to receive new
tenants, and Gabriel employees now make up less than 40%. In
addition, Gabriel’s employees and the tenants share communal
facilities to a great extent. The EMAS report will therefore continue to provide information on the total impacts from the entire
Business Park, although the individual tenants are responsible for
their own environmental impacts. In consultation with the tenants,
measuring has been established of particularly large impacts and
of installations structured in a way enabling direct allocation of the
consumption to the rooms used by the tenant.
Examining the possibilities of updating and reusing samples which
have been sent out on the market: There was no interest in this
solution, and we will therefore concentrate our efforts on ensuring
that sample material is targeted at the right target audiences and
on making other marketing material available on our website and
in other media rather than as hard copies.

Gabriel’s employees and tenants share communal facilities to a large extent

13

Environmental Report 2010/11

Criteria for determination of significant
environmental impacts:
Following Gabriel’s environmental policy, significant environmental
impacts are determined on the basis of inter alia the following
criteria for direct and indirect environmental impacts:
-	 Energy consumption and energy production.
-	 Quantities of waste water and their content of substances with
an environmental impact.
-	 Chemicals and dyes.
-	 The total quantity of waste.
-	 Information on safety data sheets.
-	 Statutory limit values.
-	 Requirements under the EU Flower Ecolabel.
-	 Requirements under the Oeko-Tex health label.
-	 Requirements to environmental Cradle to Cradle certification.
-	 New information from institutes, authorities and others with
extensive expertise in the area of the environment.
The importance of environmental impacts is expressed by setting
up key figures which show the impact relative to production. The
goal is to minimise the relative environmental impact.

Assessment of environmental impacts at the
Aalborg site.
The total energy consumption was at the same level as last year
with an 11% reduction in district heating consumption and a 7%
increase in electricity consumption. The increase in electricity consumption was due to an increased number of workplaces in the
Business Park.
Oil contamination at an old oil tank was found in November 2010
when carrying out earthworks. The oil tank was last used in 1998
when it was emptied and cleaned. Gabriel immediately informed
the City of Aalborg of the contamination and an investigation was
subsequently carried out to establish the extent of the contamination. The case is now closed and the soil around the tank has been
sent away for treatment. In addition, the tank has been filled with
sand and the required registrations have been made with the City
of Aalborg.
The requirements regarding noise specified by the City of Aalborg
were complied with.
The terms are given in notes on page 19.
The environmental data are given on page 18.

Assessment of indirect environmental impacts
Indirect environmental impacts at subcontractors’ premises are determined on the basis of the same criteria of significance which
apply to Gabriel’s activities in Aalborg.

Environmental matters are evaluated in visits to subcontractors, and
Gabriel requires its producers to comply with all local statutory
requirements. Subcontractors are also evaluated in relation to Gabriel’s environmental requirements, and action plans are carried
out together with subcontractors to ensure that their environmental
impacts are constantly being reduced.
The environmental audits made at selected subcontractors' premises include mapping of environmental parameters and environmental management, and an assessment of compliance with ISO
14001 requirements. The criteria for labelling with the EU Ecolabel
are also used.

Significant indirect environmental impacts at subcontractors’ premises include:
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	

Energy consumption and waste water in scouring and dyeing.
Chemicals consumption.
Energy consumption.
Raw materials, primarily New Zealand wool.
Waste from production.
Waste water.
Transport of raw materials and finished goods.

Consumption of raw materials is primarily New Zealand wool and
polyester for production of furniture fabrics.

Gabriel uses New Zealand wool

The environmental performance of Gabriel’s products ensures that
there is no impact on the environment from either processing or
many years of use by the consumer. The products can be handled
after their useful lives as ordinary non-hazardous waste or recycled,
as they contain no hazardous substances such as heavy metals.
Gabriel makes audits and other follow-ups on suppliers to identify
the indirect environmental impacts. We have, for example, carried
out a follow-up on the dye works Scandye, and Gabriel China
carries out similar follow-ups on Chinese partners.

14

Environmental Report 2010/11

The working environment
Gabriel wants to provide a good working environment for all

Employees are involved in the environmental management under

employees with emphasis on health, safety and job satisfaction.

Gabriel’s environmental management system, and they participate

This wish and legislation on health and safety at work form the

in the handling of environmental aspects on the basis of the indivi-

basis for developing the working environment.

dual’s area of responsibility.

Environmental approvals
Employee participation

Gabriel no longer needs special environmental permits to emit

Delegation of responsibility and a process-oriented work proce-

waste water etc. because there is no longer any production in

dure ensure the individual employee an influence on his or her

Aalborg.

own work situation at Gabriel.

The Silent Solution modules provide good acoustics and a good working environment.

15

Environmental Report 2010/11

Environmental action programme
Measurable improvement goals for Gabriel
Aalborg:

•	
•	

Collection of minimum 3.0 tons of waste from polyester
goods and implementation of test production where waste is
used in new polyester yarns.
Identification of possible improvements in the settings of heating systems which will result in a reduction in the heating
requirement of minimum 17.0 MWh, corresonding to 5% of
the current heating consumption.

Measurable maintenance of existing goals and improvement goals at the dye works ScanDye:

•	
•	
•	

Maintenance or improvement of the current water consumption of 158 litres/kg.
Maintenance or improvement of the current gas consumption
of 1.03 m3/kg.
Maintenance or improvement of the current electricity consumption of 1.43 kWh/kg.

Accounting policies
This environmental report was prepared in compliance with the
requirements of the EMAS regulation.
The report covers the period 1 October 2010 to 30 September
2011, and the figures were stated on the usual accruals basis in
accordance with the company’s activities.
The environmental report includes both absolute quantities and key
figures.
Information in the report is based on data from ongoing internal
and external readings and reports under the environmental management system.
The deadline for completion of the next environmental report for

Improvement projects:

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Performing test production with recirculation of the new product ZenXit.
Performance of prouction tests with recirculated polyester and
identification of impacts on quality and the environment.
Examination of the possibilities of collecting waste from our
customers’ cuttings from furniture fabrics and recycling of this
material.
Environmental consultancy to external customers.
Conducting Cradle to Cradle training programme.

Responsibility for implementation of the various activities in the environmental action programme has been assigned, and the activities will be carried out by 30 September 2012.

Installation of new dyeing machines at the dye works
Scandye

Gabriel’s Quality and Environment department regularly follows
up on implementation of the activities in the environmental action
programme.

Further information
Please contact Gabriel if further details on the company’s environmental issues are required.

Aalborg, 21 December 2011

Anders Hedegaard Petersen		
		
Kurt Nedergaard
CEO					
Business Manager Quality, Environment and Production	

16

Environmental Report 2010/11

Environmental auditor’s certificate
DS Certificate No 593.1
DS Certificering A/S, with EMAS environmental verifier registration number 6003
accredited for the scope (NACE Code):
13.92.10 – Manufacture of furnishing fabrics
declares to have verified whether Gabriel A/S as indicated in
the environmental statement of the organization
Gabriel A/S
Hjulmagervej 55
DK-9100 Aalborg
with registration number ” DK-000048” meet all requirements of Regulation (EC) No
1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on
the voluntary participation by organisations in a community eco-management and
audit scheme (EMAS).
Reference to the environmental statement:
The environmental statement 2010/2011, dated 21.12.2011, written in Danish
DS Certificering A/S has verified this statement written in Danish and does not vouch for translations of
the environmental statement into other languages

Reference to the environmental management system:
Environmental Management Manual for Gabriel A/S, edition dated 31.10.2011
-

By signing this declaration, I declare that:
the verification and validation has been carried out in full compliance with the requirements of
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009,
the outcome of the verification and validation confirms that there is no evidence of non-compliance with
applicable legal requirements relating to the environment,
the data and information of the environmental statement of the organisation reflect a reliable, credible
and correct image of all the organisations activities, within the scope mentioned in the environmental
statement .

This document is not equivalent to EMAS registration. EMAS registration can only be granted by a Competent
Body under Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009. This document shall not be used as a stand-alone piece of public
communication.

Issued at Charlottenlund on 20.02.2012

Management representative

17

Environmental Report 2010/11

Environmental data Aalborg
Key indicators and environmental data	 2010/11	2009/10
(historical data – see notes)	 	
Actual	 Actual	
Energy
	
District heating (m3)	 	
District heating (KWh)	
	
District heating (MWh)	
	
Calculated CO2 emission (tons)	
Calculated SO2 emission (tons)	

31,655	
341,874	
343	
117	
6	

Electricity (KWh)	 	
	
Electricity (MWh)	 	
	
Calculated CO2 emission (tons)	
Calculated SO2 emission (tons)	

435,126	 405,800	
435	
406
194	
181
23	
21

Total energy (MWh)		
	
Total calculated CO2 emission (tons)	
Total calculated SO2 emission (tons)	

778	
311	
29	

790
312
28

860	

1421

16.4	
5.1	
0	
0	

22.0	
5.5	
1.2
0.0

Waste water
	
Waste water (m3)	 	
				
Waste
Industrial waste (tons)	
	
Cardboard for recycling (tons)		
Plastic for recycling (tons)	
	
Hazardous waste (tons)	
	

35,587	 	
384,340
384
131
7

	
	

Consumption of raw materials
Key indicators and environmental data	 2010/11		
2009/10		
2008/09	
2007/08		
2006/07
					Actual		Actual		Actual		Actual		Actual
Yarn (tons):	
	
Polyester goods (kg)		

	
	

947	
346	

	
	

664	
341	

	
	

650	
270	

	
	

977	
371	

	
	

887
-

Environmental data ScanDye
Key indicators and environmental data	 2010/11		
2009/10		
2008/09	
2007/08		
2006/07
					Actual		Actual		Actual		Actual		Actual
	
Natural gas (m3)	 	
Calculated CO2 emission (tons)	
Calculated CO2 emission (kg/kg)	
	
Natural gas (m3/kg)		

1,455,032	
3270	
	
2.31	
	
1.03	
	

1,238,957	
2784	 	
2.49	
	
1.11	
	

994,551		
2235	
	
3.06	
	
1.36	
	

739,164	 	
1661	
	
2.65	
	
1.18	
	

37,484
84
2.85
1.27

Electricity (KWh)	 	
	
2,037,054	
1,769,108	
1,292,385	
1,247,930	
629,181
Electricity (MWh)	 	
	
2037	
	
1769	
	
1292	
	
1247	
	
629
911	
	
791	
	
578	
	
558	
	
281
Calculated CO2 emission (tons)	
104	
	
90	
	
66	
	
64	
	
32
Calculated SO2 emission (tons)	
Kg CO2/kg			0.64		0.71		0.70		0.89		0.95
Kg SO2/kg			0.07		0.08		0.09		0.10		0.11
Electricity (KWh/kg)		
	
1.43	
	
1.58	
	
1.77	
	
2.00	
	
2.13
Waste water (m3)	
(l/kg)	
	

	
	

	
	

223,804		
158	
	

191,107	 	
171	
	

148,838	 	
204	
	

112,868	 	
180	
	

63,137
213

18

Environmental Report 2010/11

Notes
Historical data
In contrast to data from 2008/09 and earlier, environmental data
are no longer affected by production in Aalborg. These historical
data were therefore not included, but they can be found in previous
reports. In May 2009, production was completely outsourced to
the dye works ScanDye, which meant significant environmental
indicators and impacts from ScanDye. The relative environmental
impacts in particular are relevant in relation to Gabriel’s production
because total consumption also includes production for customers
other than Gabriel.
Historical consumptions of the most important raw materials have
been provided for the last five years as this consumption is not affected by the place of production.

Key indicators
Gabriel’s environmental data include key indicators (the letter A in
accordance with EMAS III) such as energy efficiency, material efficiency, water, waste and emissions, which express the total annual
input/impacts in the various areas. The letter B which expresses
total output, and the letter R which expresses the ratio A/B, which
is also indicated under environmental data.

Energy
A cooling of 35 degrees C was used for conversion of m3of district
heating to KWh.
Calculation factors provided by Energicenter Aalborg were used
for calculation of CO2 and SO2 emissions. Because of uncertainty
with respect to emissions in Lithuania concerning electricity, Danish
key figures were used. An attempt will be made to provide Lithuanian data in future reports.

Emissions of NOx and CH4 (methane) were not included as the
quantity emitted is considered insignificant.
Consumption of district heating was primarily waste heat from production of electricity.
A varying part of the electricity consumption was renewable energy from wind turbines and hydroelectric power.
The Danish Energy Agency’s standard factors of 17 January 2011
for calorific value and CO2 emissions were used concerning natural gas emissions.

Waste water
Waste water emissions equal the purchased quantity of public
potable water.

Consumption of raw materials
The stated consumption of raw materials includes waste during
production, which was approx. 5%. The stated consumption of
raw materials is Gabriel’s total consumption.

Waste
Waste recorded does not include construction and metallic waste
from renovation of buildings and machinery.

Benchmarking
It has not been possible at this time to obtain relevant benchmarking data.

19

Environmental Report 2010/11

Requirements concerning noise
The Danish Environmental Protection Agency’s Guideline No 5/1984, External noise from enterprises, specifies the following requirements
regarding noise:
The noise generated by the enterprise – measured outdoors – expressed as the equivalent corrected noise level in dB(A) may not exceed
the values specified below at any time in the designated areas.

						H1		H1		Allotments		B1	
R1
						Kærby		Kærby		K.P.till.2.33	Kærby	
Frydendal
						Light industry	
Residential prop.	
Day:			Times:
Monday-Friday		
Saturday			
Saturday			
Sundays and holidays	

06.00-18.00	
07.00-14.00	
14.00-18.00	
07.00-18.00	

60	
60	
60	
60	

	
	
	
	

55	
55	
45	
45	

50	
50	
45	
45	

	
	
	
	

45	
45	
40	
40	

50
50
45
45

Evening:			Times:
All days			

18.00-22.00	

60	

45	

60	
60	

40	
40	

		

55	

	

45	

40	

45

40	
40	

35	
35	

45
45

55	

50	

55

Night:			Times:
Monday-Friday		
Saturday, Sunday and 	
holidays

22.00-06.00	
22.00-07.00	

Max. noise level at night:

	

		

	

The limit values stated for the noise contribution were determined on the precondition that they must be observed within the following
periods:

•	
•	
•	

During the day from 07.00-18.00 (06.00-18.00 Monday-Friday) the limit values must be observed within the eight-hour period with
the highest noise level.
In the evening from 18.00-22.00 the limit values must be observed within the hour with the highest noise level.
During the night from 22.00-07.00 (22.00-06.00 Monday-Friday) the limit values must be observed within the half hour with the
highest noise level.”

20

Elegant Leaf pattern
• A wide palette of 18 soft, bright and classic colours
• 92% New Zealand wool
• EU Ecolabel and Oeko-Tex
		
•

Gabriel Holding A/S · Hjulmagervej 55 · DK-9000 Aalborg ·

Tlf.: +45 9630 3100

Fax: +45 9813 2544 · Email: mail@gabriel.dk · www.gabriel.dk

