CSR and Environmental Report 2011/2012

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

Company information

Company:	
Gabriel A/S
	
Hjulmagervej 55
	
9000 Aalborg
	
Reg. no. 176574
	
VAT no. 12721307
	
Phone: +45 9630 3100
	
Fax.: +45 9813 2544
	www.gabriel.dk
	
E-mail: mail@gabriel.dk
Group relationships:	

Gabriel A/S is a wholly owned subsidiary of the listed company Gabriel Holding A/S.

Sector:	

Textile industry

Principal activities:	

Production of furniture fabrics including the processes of dyeing and finishing.

Legislation:	Gabriel’s activities in Denmark are covered by environmental legislation and
regulations established by the City of Aalborg.
Supervisory authority:	

City of Aalborg

Financial year:	

01.10.11 - 30.09.12

Number of employees:	

69

External auditor and accredited
environmental verification:	

DS Certificering

NACE code:	

13.92 – Manufacture of made-up textile articles except apparel

The CSR and Environmental Report for 2012/2013 will be published in January 2014.

Cover photo:
Gabriel provided the upholstery and specially made sound-adsorbing wall panels for
the renovation of Øst for Paradis (East of Paradise) in Aarhus in 2012. The chairs are
­upholstered in Fame. The wall panels are SilentSolution, a screen product consisting
of 100% recyclable fibres laminated with Soul. Both Soul and Fame are made of pure
new wool and carry the Oeko-Tex label. Fame also carries the EU Ecolabel.

2

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

Contents

Page
02 	 General information
04 	 Management’s report
05 	 Gabriel’s profile
10 	 Management systems
11 	 Corporate Social Responsibility
11 	 Quality, environment and CSR goals
12 	 CSR and environmental policies
14 	 The textile’s life cycle: Processes, activities and products
16 	 Prioritised areas
16 		 Materials and resources
20 		 Responsible production and supplier management
25 		 Environmental labelling and certifications
27 		 Development and Innovation
30 		 Social responsibility and the working environment
32 		 Gabriel Business Park
33 	 Consolidated data
34 	 Notes: Measuring methods and basis of calculations
36 	 Gabriel Masters
38 	 Environmental auditor’s certificate

Edited and published by Gabriel A/S
Quality, Environment & Production (QEP Master)
Contact:
Kurt Nedergaard, Business Manager QEP
Joan Thiesen, Project Manager QEP
Design and Production: Marketing Master, Gabriel
THE 2011/12 CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT is published electronically
Copyright: Reproduction of the 2011/12 CSR and Environmental Report is permitted with acknowledgement of source.
© Gabriel A/S

3

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

4

Management’s report

We have decided in the environmental report for the 2011/12
financial year to expand our EMAS statement to present our
work in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) because Gabriel’s work in the fields of CSR and the environment
are closely related.

The spread of C2C includes provision of consultancy services
by QEP Master which, together with the consultancy firm Milestone Pro, has most recently advised the company KE Fibertec
in gaining C2C certification. This is opening the doors to new
partnership possibilities.

Our CSR work makes a positive contribution to all areas of our
business and among our partners. We do not believe that it can
pay to compromise with, for example, the environment or animal
welfare as all these areas have a positive influence on the company’s value creation while adding value to the products for our
customers and users.

A shortage of raw materials, with a concomitant risk of major increases in raw material prices, is a very substantial challenge for
all communities and the individual company. Gabriel has studied
how we can use recycled materials. Materials for recycling are
gathered, and partnerships have been established with two independent companies which can take polyester waste. We want to
exercise effective control over the resource cycles, and a detailed
knowledge of the recycled materials’ composition is required in
order to ensure that the new goods which have been produced
possess the required quality and environmental properties.

The object of this report is to share information on Gabriel’s
work in the areas of CSR and the environment with our customers, employees, suppliers, the authorities, shareholders, the local
community and others with an interest in Gabriel’s CSR and
environmental performance. We want to share this knowledge
openly and honestly, and we want to commit ourselves to regular improvements by announcing where we’re heading.
We monitor our environmental performance via specific KPIs
and follow up on them. The 2011/12 financial year provided us
with a number of good results in the CSR and environmental
area as described below. The areas in question are considered in
more detail in the statement, and new KPIs are being set for the
2012/13 action programme.
Gabriel’s Cradle to Cradle (C2C)-certified furniture fabric in pure
new wool “Gaja C2C” was introduced in 2010, and the product has
now been taken up as standard by the world’s largest manufacturer of office furniture, Steelcase, in both Europe and the USA.
Among some of our biggest customers, C2C has become a natural part of their development work, creating innovative new
solutions and fulfilling increasingly strict market demands for
products which take due account of resource use, health and
environmental impact. C2C is also becoming an area of focus
for the forthcoming periods, where the goal includes launching
of a number of C2C products made of polyester.

Good CSR and environmental results were obtained in 2011/12
at Gabriel’s dye-works Scandye. Water consumption per kilogram of textile was reduced by over 10% as dyeing is performed
with machines with the lowest water consumption, and regular
investments are made in technology which requires fewer resources. Energy and gas consumption per kilogram of textile did,
however, increase slightly as other major customers of Scandye
had lower production quantities than in the previous year, which
has a negative effect on the key figure.
Scandye was audited under SA8000 (Social Accountability), and
the CSR certificate has just been issued.
Consumption of heat in Gabriel Business Park (Aalborg) was
reduced significantly via optimisation of controls.
Documentation on products’ health and environmental properties was also in focus in 2011/12, and the result is that our customers and users can now choose a further two products with
the EU Ecolabel and 15 new products with Oeko-Tex.

Aalborg, 21 December 2012

Anders Hedegaard Petersen
CEO

Kurt Nedergaard
Business Manager
Quality, Environment and Production

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

5

Gabriel’s profile

Mission
Innovation and value-adding partnerships are fundamental
­values in Gabriel’s mission statement.
Gabriel is a niche company which, in the entire value chain from
concept to furniture user, develops, manufactures and sells upholstery fabrics, components, upholstered surfaces and related
products and services.
Gabriel develops its services to be used in fields of application
where product features, design and logistics have to meet invariable requirements and where quality and environmental management must be documented.

VISION
∙∙ Gabriel will be the preferred development partner and supplier
to selected leading international manufacturers and lead users
of upholstered furniture, seats and upholstered surfaces.
∙∙ Gabriel will achieve Blue Ocean status through an innovative
business concept, patents, licences, exclusivity agreements
­or similar rights.
∙∙ Gabriel will enjoy the status of an attractive workplace and
partner company among competent employees and companies.

FINANCIAL TARGETS
Gabriel aims at achieving:
∙∙ A return on invested capital (ROIC) of at least 15% before tax.
∙∙ An increasing operating margin (EBIT margin).
∙∙ An average annual increase in earnings per share of
minimum 15%.
∙∙ An average annual increase in revenue of minimum 15%.

GROWTH STRATEGY – GROWING WITH THE
LARGEST MARKET PARTICIPANTS
Gabriel’s growth is ensured in close co-operation with selected
key account customers in a global strategy.
Gabriel strives to account for the largest share of the selected
key account customers’ purchases of furnishing fabrics, other
refined components and related services in the value chain.
Gabriel is constantly attentive to potential acquisitions, alliances and business areas to optimise its competitiveness and
value adding. Management advised in the annual report for the
2010/11 financial year that the goal of an average growth of 15%
p.a. will be achieved via a combination of organic growth and
acquisitions. A structured acquisition process was therefore developed in which a pipeline of relevant items will be established.

Sancal’s sofa Float upholstered in Step and Step Melange. Designed by Karim Rashid

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

6

Gabriel’s value-adding model
Finance

Operating margin
(EBIT-margin)

Earnings
growth

Revenue
growth
Market share
Customers

Processes

Innovation and learning

Return on invested
capital (ROIC)

Invested
capital

Potential
Satisfaction
Key Account/Distributor/End user

Global Account
Management

Logistics

Competent
employees/partners

Product and
process innovation

Price
competitiveness

Knowledge sharing

User groups

Organisational
learning
Satisfaction
employees/partners

Resource
optimisation

IT platform
development

Strategy
understanding

Idea generation
and analyses

Gabriel’s history, business concept and vision

Fields of application
Gabriel’s services are directed towards the following fields
of application:
∙∙ Contract (Contract furniture and seats for transport vehicles,
theatres, concert halls, cinemas, auditoriums, hospitals and
care institutions etc.).
∙∙ Home (furniture for private homes, including beds etc.).

CORPORATE MODEL
Gabriel’s focus on Innovation and value-adding partnerships is
ensured via carefully selected and effective management systems
and core processes and a high level of expertise.
The basis for Gabriel’s value-adding model is the use of the Balanced Scorecard Model above (applied since 2003) and the four
perspectives:

The financial perspective sets out Gabriel’s targeted return
on invested capital (ROIC), specifically defined as revenue
potential with Gabriel’s selected customers and targeted sales
and earnings growth.
The customer perspective is focused only on customer satisfaction. Both perspectives include achievement goals only, and
these are supported by leading initiatives in the core and support
processes.
The core processes have been selected on the basis of the
Group’s strategy, and goals for initiatives’ results (KPIs) have
been set for each of the selected core processes:
∙∙ Key Account Management (KAM).
∙∙ Logistics.
∙∙ Product and process Innovation.
∙∙ Price competitiveness.
The objective of Innovation and Learning is to ensure a continuous focus on innovation and learning among all employees.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

7

Gabriel’s process outline
Managerial processes

Core processes

Supporting processes
– strategic
business units

Strategy
process

Employee
information

Management
follow-up

Resource
optimisation

Investor
Relations

Shareholders,
Analysts, etc.

A and B1
customers

KAM from potential to
regular customer relations

Product and process innovation – from
conception to product ready for sale/new process

A Customers

All
customers

Logistics from customer order
to product supplied

Price competitiveness
lowest cost

Suppliers

KAM-Master

SampleMaster

DesignMaster

FurnMaster

QEP-Master

LogisticsMaster

InnovationMaster

MarketingMaster

TransportMaster

FinanceMaster

Gabriel
Asia Pacific

Gabriel
Erhvervspark

HR-Master

ProjectMaster

Technology and
Facilities

GABRIEL’S PROCESS OUTLINE – STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNITS
Gabriel’s business model requires a process-oriented approach
introduced in the organisation over several years. The increasingly important strategic business units (Masters) with their own
visions, targets, strategies and budgets carry out some of the
supporting processes. The various Masters are described at the
end of the report.
The strategic business units are run as independent profit centres
with their own business concepts, visions, targets, strategies,
action plans and budgets. Intra-unit settlement takes place on an
arm’s length basis and in competition with external suppliers.
The individual profit centre is entitled, and under an obligation, to
generate earnings growth through external trading in goods and
services where relevant. In addition, the individual business units
are expected to buy services at the most competitive prices – from
both intra-Group and extra-Group sources.

The strategic business units are to:
∙∙ deliver future growth through new channels without
­compromising the overall strategy in the core processes
∙∙ ensure a progressively increasing return on invested capital
∙∙ reduce dependency on overheads in the core business
∙∙ ensure competitive power throughout the entire value chain
from conception to user.
VALUE CHAIN
Gabriel’s value chain covers all steps from concept to furniture
user, and the Group supplies products and services from all
stages in the value chain. Gabriel terms the complete value chain
perspective “One Stop Gabriel”. The One Stop model’s intention is that customers can ensure development and delivery of
products and services in all stages of the value chain via a single
contact person. The model is illustrated on the next page.

”One Stop Gabriel” – innovation in the value chain
Conception

Design/
development

Raw
material

Yarn

Greige
piece

Dyeing/
Finishing

Cutting/
sewing

Piece
goods/
coupon

Fabric
cut/cover
sewn

Upholstery
material Upholstery

Partly
fitted
fabric

Furniture
part

Fitting

Finished
furniture

Gabriel
Contract

Key
Accounts

Distributors

Gabriel
Home

Other
Accounts

Furniture
users

Production of sample card.

QEP
– Quality, Environment and Production Master

QEP Master supports Gabriel’s business development via optimisation
of the quality and environmental background in products, services
and processes. QEP assumes responsibility for quality in all products
and services sold, and supports its customers in matters of quality and
environmental concerns in the supply chain.

QEP offers competences within quality and environmental management, product labelling, working environment and production. QEP was established in the 2006/07 financial year.
QEP Master creates value and customer satisfaction among its selected customers via a long-term partnership on quality and environmental management, product labelling, CSR and production of
products in the customers’ supply chains. This covers compliance
with documented requirements and development of solutions to
meet the customers’ identified needs and expectations.
Gabriel and QEP Master are often asked whether we will share
our experiences, knowledge and results on CSR and the environment. We’re happy to help by sharing our knowledge and inspiring others where we can, for example at conferences, seminars
or in workshops.

QEP Master also offers more formal consultancy services out
of house, where we work together with external companies to
improve their quality, CSR and environmental performance. QEP
wants to focus on a small number of external customers who will
ensure long-term growth in external revenue. This is a unique
arrangement within the consultancy world, and the fact that
we have often experienced and resolved equivalent challenges
provides a high level of strength in an advisory situation. Under
all circumstances we have a highly practical and result-oriented
approach to how challenges can be overcome. Together with our
partners, we offer specific consultancy services such as those
related to circular economy and Cradle to Cradle.
More details are available at:
www.gabriel.dk/about-us/quality-environment/

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

10

Management systems

Gabriel has been DS/ISO 9001 and EMAS/ISO 14001 certified
since 1991 and 1996 respectively. Gabriel Asia Pacific (includes
Gabriel’s representative office and the trade company Gabriel
“Tianjin” International Trading Co. Ltd.) gained DS/ISO 9001
certification and DS/ISO14001 certification in 2006.
In addition to the Balanced Score Card model implemented in
2002, Gabriel has taken the following important initiatives on
the further information which is available on Gabriel’s website.
∙∙ EU Ecolabel carried by the company’s main products since 2003.
∙∙ Development – Blue Ocean Strategy since 2005.
∙∙ Innovation Cup participant in 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010 and 2011.
∙∙ Division of Gabriel into independent Master units from 2006/07.
∙∙ First company in Denmark with C2C certification
from November 2010.

Gabriel has a documented internal management system called
Gabriel A-Z to manage input, output, processes and responsibility in relation to the above. Gabriel A-Z is audited by Gabriel
and is also externally certified by DS Certificering. This is the
customer’s guarantee that the system functions in practice and
fulfils the basic requirements. Gabriel has also adopted a Code of
Conduct which provides guidance in relation to responsible and
ethical business behaviour. Finally, Gabriel’s products comply
with the requirements specified in a large number of international product standards which ensure high value and minimal
risk for customers and end-users. The environmental management system handles environmental matters throughout the
value chain.

Evaluation of colours.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) work is a natural part
of the Group’s work. To Gabriel, CSR means that the company
takes responsibility for creating value which contributes, directly
or indirectly, to a positive development in society. The company
endorses the principles specified in the UN Global Compact.
Being a responsible company is central to the way we run Gabriel
as a company and is a permanent point on the strategic agenda.
At Gabriel, CSR is not a transient fashion but a strategic driver
on par with product development and sales. We assume an extraordinary responsibility for how our products are produced,
and in those areas where we are not the owners, we take responsibility as if it was our own.
We see Gabriel’s environmental work as a part of our CSR. This
report deals with both perspectives and it is based on those matters we judge to be most important.
The following pages describe our goals, specific policies in the
areas of CSR and the environment, the concrete impacts to
which our activities give rise, and how we’re constantly
working to improve our impacts in the value chain.

Argos 2 and Digital 2 upholstered on
Vivero’s Hanabi model. Designed by Yuki Abe.

GOALS FOR QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT AND CSR

Services provided by Gabriel must correspond accurately to customer needs and expectations. The company’s production and
­distribution must proceed with due respect for the need to ensure a continuing reduction in resource consumption and emissions
which might have an impact on the environment. Gabriel’s position as a quality and environmentally conscious company is evidenced by its certification under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and the EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme.
It must be easy for Gabriel’s customers to choose an environmentally correct and healthy product, and the company uses product
labelling with the EU environmental Ecolabel and the Oeko-Tex health label. The labelling schemes were chosen in view of
­consumers’ trust in these schemes, and the latters’ recognition rate is increasing.

11

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

12

CSR and environmental policies

Our goals are met via a set of policies. These policies apply to all
activities and they also influence how we work with partners in the
value chain.

CSR POLICY
Gabriel follows the principles in the UN Global Compact and focuses on the following areas:
∙∙ Gabriel’s products and services must be developed and delivered
with due respect for users’ safety and health. Environmental impacts must be minimised and animal welfare respected throughout the value chain.
∙∙ A good working environment is ensured throughout the supply
chain, and country-specific laws and Gabriel’s own requirements
are complied with. These requirements include concrete technical
specifications and matters included in Gabriel’s Code of Conduct.
∙∙ Continuous skills and job development for all employees are accorded a high priority.
∙∙ Gabriel wants to support students by providing internships, and
the company participates in research projects which benefit both
the students and the company.
∙∙ Gabriel communicates its CSR activities openly and supports the
propagation of CSR as a managerial activity.

ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
∙∙ The environmental management system covers all activities at
Gabriel, including the site in Aalborg and all products and services which the company supplies.
∙∙ The company’s general goals are documented in a business plan
(environmental action programme) which is prepared once a year
for the period 1/10 to 30/9. The business plan (the programme)
includes measurable environmental goals which, together with
responsibility and expertise, must be known by all employees.
∙∙ Energy has an important environmental impact, and energy
management is an integral part of Gabriel’s environmental
management. Energy management covers supply systems with
significant energy consumption. Environmental goals and the
environmental action programme must include energy matters
and ensure on-going improvements in energy consumption.
∙∙ Cleaner technology and environmental improvements are regularly introduced into the supply chains with due respect for
the technical and financial consequences, and pollution must be
prevented.
∙∙ Gabriel conducts an open and close dialogue with the authorities
on environmental requirements. The company has a duty to respect relevant legislation and relevant statutory requirements in
the area of the environment as well as other provisions to which
the company has committed itself.
∙∙ Gabriel uses product labelling with the EU Eco­label and the
Oeko-Tex health label. The labelling scheme was chosen in view
of consumers’ trust in these schemes, and the latter’s recognition
rate is increasing.
∙∙ Gabriel takes account of all phases of our products’ life cycle and
prioritises our environmental initiatives in those areas where our
influence and impact are greatest.
∙∙ Gabriel holds and will maintain our position as First Mover
within our sector, meaning that we assume the lead in relation to
taking a position on and implementing new initiatives to improve
our environmental performance.
∙∙ Gabriel prepares an environmental report in connection with
the presentation of the annual financial statements. The report
includes information on CSR and major environmental impacts
and goals. The environmental report is available to the public and
is distributed to all employees in the company.
∙∙ Those of the company’s employees in contact with customers
must be in a position to provide correct information on Gabriel’s
environmental goals and policies. Guidance must be provided to
customers and users on significant environmental aspects of the
use, recycling and disposal of the company’s products.
∙∙ The company’s suppliers must be selected in accordance with
their ability to fulfil environmental requirements and their willingness to enter into an open and close partnership to achieve
optimal solutions.

Runner upholstered on Wilkhahn’s office chair ON. Designed by Wiege

∙∙ Contractors working at Gabriel’s site in Aalborg must fulfil the
same environmental requirements applying to Gabriel.

Product practice at Gabriel.

CSR must never
go out of fashion
CSR is central to the way we run Gabriel as a company and is a permanent point on
the strategic agenda. CSR at Gabriel is no mere fashion phenomenon but a strategic
driver on a par with product development, sales and other activities.
Gabriel’s continuous work with CSR ensures that:
∙∙ we deliver healthy, quality products,
∙∙ we make products with maximum consideration for the environment
and resource consumption,
∙∙ we ensure a healthy working environment everywhere we produce,
and with our customers,
∙∙ we can document the relationship between words and actions – at a
minimum, we meet the requirements under the UN Global Compact.
Our CSR activities make a positive contribution to all areas in our company because this creates healthy and valuable business ethics which
are visible at all levels in the supply chain. We do not believe that it can
pay to compromise on, for example, working conditions, the environment or animal welfare, because all these areas have an influence on
the company’s health and they provide the necessary security for our
customers, explains CEO Anders Hedegaard Petersen.

There’s a person behind the process
Here at Gabriel we put a fingerprint on society all the way from raw
materials to the finished upholstered product, and we therefore share
responsibility at all stages, both locally and globally. Our approach to
textile production therefore always has CSR and value adding in mind.

For example, we’re strongly focused on animal welfare for the 100,000
sheep which supply wool for Gabriel’s textiles; we ensure that our dye
works in Lithuania operates with safe technology and environmentally
correct machinery; we require our Chinese suppliers to comply with western CSR standards, and that there is no corruption, child labour or violation of human rights at any point throughout the process.
– We may never lose consciousness of the person behind the processes in the supply chain. We must always assume responsibility here
and ensure orderly conditions. We therefore also make heavy demands
on our partners and advisers, says Business Manager for QEP (Quality,
Environment and Production) Kurt Nedergaard.

Exceptional value for customers and users
Our continuous serious work with CSR ensures that we as a company
can vouch for the conditions under which our products are made. For our
customers, our work ensures that their furniture products are easier to
document and attract no negative attention with respect to CSR.
We work globally with customers who specify the most stringent
requirements with respect to documentation for our products. This
also applies to social impacts, and we believe that our CSR activities
provide exceptional assurance, and therewith also value here.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

14

THE TEXTILE’S LIFE CYCLE: PROCESSES, ACTIVITIES AND PRODUCTS

Our goal and our policies set the framework for Gabriel’s work
in the value chain, including how we work together with selected
partners to solve the tasks. Gabriel has an impact on the entire
route from raw materials to the finished upholstered product,
and we therefore have a shared responsibility in all stages both
locally and globally. Our approach to textile production and
the value chain therefore always has CSR and value creation in
mind.
To achieve the greatest possible environmental effect for the
initiatives we take, we work from the perspective of the textiles’
complete life cycle. This helps us to ensure that we don’t optimise a step in the life cycle without noting how it affects the environmental qualities of the following steps. We also ensure that
the initiative is focused on where the environmental effect will be
greatest. The textiles’ life cycle can generally be described under
the model on the next page.
Environmental matters in the textile’s life cycle are determined
on the basis of systematic readings, including of input (raw materials, water, chemicals and energy) and measurements of output (waste water, scrap and emissions). We also regularly analyse and report the findings of institutes, authorities and others
who are thoroughly familiar with environmental matters in order
to identify relevant concerns.
The importance of environmental matters is reflected in our setting up of key figures for the individual matter and its effect relative to the completed production. The goal is thus to minimise
the relative environmental impact.
The mapping shows that the following can be regarded as the
most important environmental matters in the textile’s life cycle:
∙∙ Raw materials – New Zealand wool
∙∙ Raw materials – polyester fibres
∙∙ Energy consumption and waste water, especially in washing,
dyeing and finishing treatment
∙∙ Consumption of chemicals
∙∙ Energy consumption
∙∙ Scrap from production
∙∙ Waste water
∙∙ Transport of raw materials and finished goods
∙∙ Disposal, including recycling of the products
These matters relate primarily to suppliers and customers’ activities (indirect environmental impacts). Given that Gabriel’s environmental work is product-oriented, we do, however, also seek
to work to a high degree with these matters in cooperation with
suppliers and customers. It is therefore essential that we have a
good relationship with, for example, our suppliers so that we can
advise them of our requirements and goals.

Matters related to Gabriel’s activities in Denmark (direct environmental impacts) are:
∙∙ Consumption of energy and heating
∙∙ Noise
∙∙ Generation of waste
∙∙ Transport for customer visits, supplier follow-up etc.

HIGH PRIORITY AREAS
This report describes both how we handle the direct matters and
how we operate in the textile’s life cycle with respect to the indirect matters. Our initiatives are described under six main areas
which help us to implement our goals and policies for CSR and
the environment. These six prioritised areas were chosen under
the following criteria:
∙∙ Matters prioritised by Gabriel’s CSR and environmental policies
∙∙ Matters judged important by legislation
∙∙ Matters judged important in product labelling, including C2C,
Oeko-Tex and the EU Ecolabel
∙∙ Matters where Gabriel has an influence on effecting
an improvement
∙∙ The relative importance of environmental matters

The six main areas are:
∙∙ Materials and resources
∙∙ Responsible production and management of suppliers
∙∙ Environmental labelling and certifications
∙∙ Development and innovation
∙∙ Social responsibility and the working environment
∙∙ Gabriel Business Park

These areas are discussed in greater depth on the following
pages, where we provide an overview of our attitude, activities
performed, results and new goals. As a whole, this should also
be considered our environmental action programme, the details
of which show how we intend to work on our impacts related to
CSR and the environment in 2012/13.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

The textiles’ life cycle

Wool

Polyester

Raw materials
­production

- Sheep farming
- Shearing
- Scouring

- Extract crude oil
- Refine crude oil

Raw materials
­processing

- Material dyeing
- Carding
- Spinning
- Yarn dyeing
- Twisting

- Petrochemical processing
- Granulate
- Melt granulate
- Spin fibres

Weaving

Textile production

Dyeing
Wet processing, dyeing,
finishing treatment

Dispatch

Making up
Cutting, sewing, upholstering

Use

Disposal

Recycle

Reprocess

New use

15

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

16

Materials and resources

The biggest resource in Gabriel’s products is pure new wool
from New Zealand. Gabriel uses only New Zealand wool and
the company has a long-term partnership with Wools of New
Zealand. Wools of New Zealand is your guarantee of high quality raw material and good conditions for the sheep. Wool is a
naturally produced renewable resource, so we avoid drawing on
limited raw materials. Wool is therefore also an obvious choice
in relation to Gabriel’s Cradle to Cradle activities. Wool is very
durable and it maintains its attractive appearance in use, assuring the finished product a long service life. Wool also possesses
unique dyeing properties, where the dye is absorbed into the
fibre, and the material absorbs light, meaning very attractive
colours with lots of depth and no reflections. Finally, wool is
non-allergenic. Gabriel uses only high quality raw wool, thus
avoiding many chemical finishing treatments.
Polyester has come to comprise a significant part of Gabriel’s
product range in recent years. Polyester is the world’s most used
fibre, and it has properties which make it suitable for production
of furniture fabric. Polyester is particularly suitable for recycling.
As with wool, we only work together with suppliers which can
supply high quality polyester yarns, enabling us to ensure that
our quality requirements can be met.

cycles. Our range of textiles includes the product Comfort, which
consists of 37% recycled PET, and we’re continually working to
discover the possibilities for increasing the proportion of textiles
based on recycled material.
Chemicals are required in, for example, dyeing and washing
processes, and Gabriel controls the choice and use of dyes and
chemicals in our suppliers’ production. We thus do not accept
the use of, for example:
∙∙ Chlorine compounds
∙∙ Organic solvents
∙∙ Dyes containing heavy metals
∙∙ Dyes and pigments which can cleave off carcinogens
∙∙ PVC
∙∙ Bromine-containing flame retardants
∙∙ Silver ions or other bactericidal treatments
∙∙ Anti-moth impregnation (the substances in question are toxic.)
∙∙ Other substances classified as carcinogenic or mutagenic
The environmentally friendly properties in Gabriel’s products ensure minimisation of environmental impacts during processing
and the many years of use by the consumer. After use, the textiles can be handled as ordinary non-toxic waste or recycled into
new products.

We’re not merely focused on where the raw materials come
from, but also on what will become of the resources in their next
life. We are thus increasingly working on closing the material

Processing of tops.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

Materials and resources: goals and results

Goal 2011/12

Collection of at least 3.0 tons of waste
polyester materials, including investigation of options for collection of waste
from customers’ cutting out of furniture
fabrics and reuse of this material.

Running trial productions where waste
is used in new polyester yarns, including
discovery of effects on quality and the
environment in use of recycled material.

Result 2011/12

A partnership was established with
two independent companies which can
take in polyester waste with a view to
recycling it for new products.

A binding agreement is made with a
recipient of polyester waste, where the
specific quantities and use of the waste
product are agreed.

About 6.2 tons of polyester material
are available for trials from our own
production, the upholstery supplier
and another partner.

A continuous logistics system is established to handle the waste material.

A production test was initiated with
collected polyester (production waste)
in cooperation with partners who will
determine what the material can be
recycled into.

At least one new product is launched on
the basis of recycled polyester fibre.

The introductory analysis of materials
was performed. It showed that if other
substances are added to the polyester,
it can be weakened and made difficult
to recycle to the same quality.

Performing test productions with
­recycling of the new product ZenXit.

Goals 2012/13

Intensive work has been done on the
product’s properties, but the project
has not yet reached the stage where
attempted recycling has been performed. However, the assessment is
still that this is possible on the basis
of the product’s composition and the
partner’s experiences.
An introductory test of the viscosity of
recycled material was carried out.

Whether our own waste product can
be used as a resource for new textiles
is clarified.
The quality and environmental requirements for the material are established,
including its purity, so that it
can be used as a resource for new yarn.

Specification of the product’s
­environmental and quality properties
is continuing.
Perform tests to determine the
quantities in which recycled and new
materials can be mixed.

17

New Zealand Wool
New Zealand sheep production is recognised throughout the world for their high
quality. The sheep graze on open land and there are high standards for animal
welfare and nature management.
Gabriel has a long-term partnership with Wools of New Zealand, which
supplies the wool for our products. Wools of New Zealand works with
selected farmers and is thus our guarantee of a high standard.
Wool is a renewable resource which is biodegradable or reusable in
other products. It also has natural fire-retardant properties and it does
not catch fire on contact with a flame or hot embers. Wool has good
properties in relation to the indoor climate, for example air quality and

humidity, where the wool can absorb 35% of its own weight in moisture
and still feel dry.
New Zealand wool is also known for its high quality, meaning, for example, that it is dirt-repellent, and it maintains its good appearance
because it naturally retains its shape.

From plastic bottle
to Comfort+
Comfort+ is the market’s top microfibre. It doesn’t pill and it retains both colour and
appearance year after year. It is also very easy to clean and maintain as it is waterand oil-repellent, and spots are removed easily and without problems.
Comfort+ consists of 37% recycled fibres deriving from PET bottles.
The fibres are high quality, and their purity is monitored. The fact that
it includes recycled material does not have any effect on its ability to
meet the quality requirements.
Comfort+ has a most unusually long life. We give a ten-year guarantee
against pilling and perforation through wear. The product has a wearability of 150,000 Martindale, which is very high.

Comfort+ is Oeko-Tex 100 certified. No organic solvents are used in
the production, thereby avoiding harmful effects on the environment.
Comfort+ is machine washable right up to 74ºC. It thereby fulfils the
requirements for use in the care and hospital sectors, and Comfort+
can be disinfected with ethanol. There are many positive functional
aspects of Comfort+ which also help to reduce the product’s environmental impact.
Comfort+ is available in 77 different colours form the most delicate
pastels to an explosion of colour.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

20

RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT

Gabriel works only with good partners in the supplier chain, and
we work actively to select and improve the best possible partners.
When we visit our suppliers, an environmental assessment is a
highly prioritised area, and Gabriel’s requirements include compliance by the manufacturers with all local official requirements.
The suppliers are also assessed in relation to Gabriel’s own
environmental requirements, and together with the suppliers,
action plans can be implemented to ensure that environmental
impacts are regularly reduced. Our partners are expected to
work in accordance with our Code of Conduct, which they must
also sign. Our Code of Conduct is a set of rules which serve to
provide guidance with respect to business ethics and to help our
employees to maintain ethical behaviour. This helps us to act in
the best possible manner in our value chains. The Code of Conduct was developed on the basis of the UN Global Compact and
is in accordance with the recommendations of the sector organisation Dansk Fashion & Textile.
Conducting environmental audits at selected suppliers enables
us to analyse environmental matters and environmental management, which are evaluated in relation to compliance with the
requirements of ISO 14001. Code of conduct requirements and
criteria for labelling with Oeko-Tex or environmental labelling
with the EU Ecolabel are also used to assess performance. These
schemes also place direct requirements on the suppliers, and
compliance is verified by a third party. Following up on Gabriel’s

partners in Europe is undertaken by the team from Aalborg,
while Gabriel Asia Pacific undertakes equivalent following up on
the partners in their region.
There is a close partnership with our dye works Scandye, where
we regularly follow up on environmental projects and improvements. Gabriel A/S owns 49% of the share capital in Scandye
UAB, and the environmental impacts from the processes in the
dye works also comprise a significant proportion of the environmental impacts attributable to the textile during its life. The
activities at Scandye are therefore in focus in the overview of
goals and results below. Scandye’s environmental results in the
2011/12 financial year were affected by a single major customer’s
(apart from Gabriel’s) reduced purchases of piecework dyeing
during the year. Focus in the 2012/13 financial year will be on energy consumption, and projects on insulation of valves and heat
recovery from the production equipment are planned.
Gabriel is a member of the sector organisation Dansk Fashion &
Textile’s CSR committee for the promotion of CSR in the sector.
Further details are available at www.dmogt.dk.
Finally, transport is a relevant factor as it connects production
and customers. Work on optimisation of transport is continuing,
so that most goods will be transported by ship or lorry. This is
also significant from a financial point of view.

Collection of thread on spinning machine.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

Responsible production and supplier management: goals and results

Goals 2011/12

Results 2011/12

Goals 2012/13

Scandye’s current water consumption
of 158 litres/kg to be maintained
or improved.

Scandye’s total water consumption was
reduced by 26%. The ratio for water
consumption was also reduced by 12%
to 140 l/kg textile. This was achieved
primarily by investments in new machinery and dyeing with the machines
with the lowest water consumption.

Reduction in water consumption at
Scandye to 135 l/kg textile.

Scandye’s current electricity consumption of 1.43 kWh/kg to be maintained
or improved.

Scandye’s total electricity consumption was reduced by 12%. However,
because of lower production quantities
for customers other than Gabriel, the
electricity ratio increased by 6% to 1.52
kWh/kg textile.

Reduction in electricity consumption at
Scandye to 1.48 kWh/kg textile.

Scandye’s current gas consumption of
1.03 m3/kg to be maintained
or improved.

Scandye’s total gas consumption was
reduced by 13%. However, because of
lower production quantities for customers other than Gabriel, the gas ratio
increased by 5% to 1.08 m3/kg textile.

At a minimum, retain gas consumption
at Scandye at 1.08 m3/kg textile.

The dye works Scandye was audited
under SA8000 (Social Accountability)
and gained certification.

Gain EMAS certification for Scandye.

ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification for
Gabriel updated to cover new cushion
supplier and structured around the
individual Master.
Conduct courses for relevant departments in Gabriel, connecting CSR,
suppliers and the value chain.
There will be an investigation of how
relevant KPIs and goals for transport
applying from next year’s environmental accounts can be set up.

21

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

22

code of conduct

ANTI-CORRUPTION

HUMAN RIGHTS

Principle 10:	Businesses must work against corruption in
all its forms, including extortion and bribery.

Principle 1:	Businesses must support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human
rights; and
Principle 2:	ensure that they are not complicit in human
rights abuses.
LABOUR STANDARDS

Principle 3:	Businesses must uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the
right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4:	the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
Principle 5:	
the effective abolition of child labour; and
Principle 6:	the elimination of discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation.
ENVIRONMENT

Principle 7:	Businesses must support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
Principle 8:	undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
Principle 9:	encourage the development and diffusion of
environmentally friendly technologies.

ANIMALS

Principle 11:	In businesses where animals are used in ­labour
and/or in production (fur, wool etc.), such animals must be fed and treated with dignity and
respect, and no animal may be deliberately
harmed or exposed to pain its life. Taking the
lives of animals must at all times be performed
using the quickest, least painful and non-traumatic (not in the field of vision of other animals) method available, and approved by
national and acknowledged veterinarians and
only conducted by trained personnel.
CHARITY

Principle 12:	Businesses are encouraged to work and seek
to be involved in local or global charity work
for the improvement of better social and living conditions.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION

Principle 13:	All businesses involved must at all times be
open and accessible to announced and unannounced audits for monitoring and evaluation
of compliance with the Code of Conduct.

Preparation for warping.

ISO 9001
ISO 14001
OHSAS 18001
SA 8000

Scandye UAB,
Lithuania
Scandye UAB performs a large part of Gabriel’s
dyeing and finishing treatment work.

Scandye is certified under ISO 9001, ISO 1400, OHSAS 18001 and
SA 8000. Scandye’s products also comply with the requirements
in the various labelling schemes selected by Gabriel, meaning
that, for example, no heavy metals or other hazardous substances are used in the processes.
Working with the management systems and the various labelling
schemes makes it easy for the factory to comply with the emission requirements set by the local authorities, and ensures a
good working environment at the factory.

Scandye has the capacity to process over 1 million kg textile a
year and the factory is expert in the dyeing of wool and polyester
as yarn, both woven and knitted.
Scandye has its own laboratory, working with formulae and testing
the textiles’ properties. Scandye has a very flexible production
setup, where it is possible to produce many different sizes to order.

ISO 9001
ISO 14001

Gabriel
Asia Pacific
Gabriel Asia Pacific sells the company’s own designed and made products,
and develops and sources products for sale via Gabriel A/S. There is a close
partnership, including in the area of product labelling.

Apart from the Danish general manager, the office is staffed exclusively by Chinese employees, including three textile engineers
with their own special areas of expertise, and a logistics manager
with responsibility for delivering to the right place at the right time.
Gabriel Asia Pacific uses a network of modern and specialised
textile factories. All are selected on condition that they comply
with the same requirements regarding quality and the environment as Gabriel’s other suppliers. There are regular tests and

quality controls, and Gabriel Asia Pacific also has a comprehensive programme for visiting suppliers, where the actual conditions
are in focus.
Gabriel Asia Pacific is certified by DS Certificering under ISO
9001 and ISO 14001. The system is closely integrated with Gabriel’s total quality and environmental management system, maintaining exactly the same quality standards whether the products
are made in Europe or China.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

25

ENVIRONMENTAL LABELLING AND CERTIFICATIONS

Gabriel uses generally accepted and internationally recognised
product labels and certifications. On the production side, we have
decided to focus on the EU Ecolabel, Oeko-Tex, Cradle to Cradle
and the Nordic Swan, and we have frequently been at the forefront within the industry in using new labels. In 2002, Gabriel was
the first upholstery fabric manufacturer in the world to use the EU
Ecolabel on a large part of the range, and in 2010, Gabriel was the
first Danish company to gain Cradle to Cradle certification.

Our requirement is that an environmentally labelled product
must be able to comply with all the customer’s needs at the same
level as, or better than, a product without the label. Gabriel does
not have a specific green product line – all products comply with
stringent requirements which reflect the requirements under the
Oeko-Tex scheme or the EU Ecolabel. We have also included a
certification under the Cradle to Cradle scheme in selected areas,
and we expect this area to be extended in the future.

The product labelling helps to ensure that there is an objective
basis for proving that what we say about our products is true.
The labelling schemes mean that our product range is subject to
a number of different external tests and approvals which are our
customers’ guarantee of the products’ performance. This applies
to both internationally recognised product standards such as
those concerning wearability and fire-retardant qualities, and
environmental matters.

As already noted, Gabriel is also certified under ISO 9001, ISO
14001 and EMAS. We have gained these certifications to ensure
that we can systematically manage all parameters in our products’
production, and that we can constantly improve our performance. A large quantity of environmental and quality data on our
products is available, and we can thus offer specific details if a
customer wants a particular label on his product for a specific
market. We regularly identify and prioritise whether we should
include new product labels in our portfolio, as this can be a route
into new markets.

Environmental labels and certifications: Goals and results

Goals 2011/12

All new products must carry either the
EU Ecolabel or Oeko-Tex.

Results 2011/12

Two products gained certification
under the EU Ecolabel.

Goals 2012/13

All new products must carry either the
EU Ecolabel or Oeko-Tex.

One product gained certification under
the Swan scheme.
Fifteen products gained certification
under Oeko-Tex.

The product range is revised and updated to meet new requirements under
the EU Ecolabel which are expected to
be adopted in March 2013.

Extension of the C2C programme
to include at least one new
polyester product.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

DS/16/20

EU Ecolabel
The EU Ecolabel (the Flower) is the European Union’s environment label. The label covers environmental issues
throughout the product’s life cycle with focus on energy, water and chemicals, and accords a high priority to
reducing the most significant environmental impacts of a given product. For textiles, this means focusing on the
quantity of pesticide residues in the raw material, the scouring of the raw wool, the use and emissions of hazardous chemicals in production, and the quantity of toxic substances and heavy metals in the finished product.
The EU Ecolabel also sets requirements concerning the product’s quality, so that the product with the environmental label is at least as good as the non-labelled alternative.
www.ec.europa.eu/environment/ecolabel/

Oeko-Tex
Oeko-Tex is the world’s leading health label for textiles. The label certifies that the item was tested and
approved on the basis of the requirements set by the international Oeko-Tex® association. These requirements concern the content of chemicals which can – or are suspected of being able to – damage the body.
The label goes further than the law, and the requirements are divided into four classes depending on the
textile’s use (how close to the body they are). The substances in question include, for example, formaldehyde, chemical residues with an acidic or basic action, pesticides, phenols, heavy metals, special dyes and
phthalates.
www.oeko-tex.com

Cradle to Cradle
Cradle to cradle (C2C) concerns the way we view our resources (extraction, use, disposal) and works to create a closed cycle with either technical or biological nutrients. The concept was formulated by the German
Michael Braungart and the American William McDonough in 2002, but ideas underlying the concept are now
shared in a number of circles.
A C2C certification assesses the product in relation to five categories: renewable energy, water consumption,
the materials’ health properties, social responsibility, and recycling. The result is certification at one of five
levels. The scheme is administered by The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute.
www.epea.com

www.c2ccertified.org

www.mbdc.com

Management systems: ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and EMAS
ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 are both standards for quality and environmental management under which a company can choose certification. Both standards are based on the principle of making continuous improvements
which are created by implementing a fixed cycle: the current situation is evaluated, goals are set and policies
formulated, the required actions are implemented, and finally the result is measured. On the basis of the result, an assessment is made of whether actions and goal are adequate, or whether improvements should be
made and new goals set. ISO 9001 focuses on parameters of significance for a company’s performance with
respect to quality, while ISO 14001 concerns the matters of significance for the company’s environmental performance. An important tool in this is the audit, which is an assessment of whether the systems are functioning as planned.
EMAS (the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) has many parallels with ISO 14001 as all the latter’s requirements are included in EMAS. In some areas, the scheme is, however, more ambitious. For example, a
published environmental account and measurable environmental improvements year by year are required.
www.iso.org
ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/

m

r

t ung

e t al l e
No h
e

vy

etall fr
rm Fr ei
if

or

metal s
Schw

e

Gabriel: Ten-year guarantee
Gabriel provides a ten-year guarantee against wear-through on all furniture fabrics in the price list under normal office or home use, normal maintenance and appropriate upholstering. The label was designed by Gabriel.
Gabriel also has a comprehensive spot removal guide which can also be used to keep the fabric clean and
attractive in the event of an accident.
Gabriel: No heavy metals
The label was developed by Gabriel back in the 1980s to signal to customers that Gabriel can offer ranges of
dyes which are free of heavy metals. Gabriel was the first Danish textile manufacturer to introduce this, and
no heavy metals are now used in our dyes.
Since then, the environmental labels have appeared, and they also govern the limit values for heavy metals.
The label is also still used as a symbol of our tradition of taking the lead in the sector.

26

a

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

27

DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION

Innovation and value-creating partnerships are the foundation of
Gabriel’s mission, and this is also reflected in the way we work
with our environmental impacts. We want to be our customers’
preferred development partner so that the customer, facing a
new challenge, sees it as entirely natural to turn to Gabriel for
advice. We’re in a position to solve environmental challenges
throughout the product’s life cycle, and we’re happy to share
this knowledge with our customers. We also want to inspire
our customers to take new pathways in their work on environmental issues, to discover new possibilities and thereby to offer
customers new solutions which can benefit their business. Our
policies are determined on the basis that we want to be leaders
in the area. We go further than the limits required by law. This
also protects our products against more stringent requirements
under the law because we’re already at the forefront when new
requirements are made mandatory for all.

There is a close working relationship between the Masters in
Gabriel on development of new products. Gabriel’s QEP Master
(Quality, Environment and Production) is involved at an early
stage in the course of development, ensuring that requirements
and new possibilities are elucidated and integrated into the
product development processes.
In recent years, Gabriel QEP Master has also used its expertise
with respect to external partners who are not involved in our
traditional value chains. This helps to develop the work on quality and the environment for these partners while also extending
QEP Master’s area of business.

Development and innovation: Goals and results

Goals 2011/12

Results 2011/12

Goals 2012/13

Offer environmental consultancy to
external customers.

Gaining Cradle to Cradle certification
for KE Fibertec, Vejen.
Established cooperation agreement
with EPEA Hamburg for consultancy
services on C2C.

Extend customer portfolio for
external consultancy.

Conduct Cradle to Cradle
training programme.

Not finished.

Conduct Cradle to Cradle training
­programme in cooperation with
EPEA, including participation of
­external parties.

Prepare life cycle assessment (LCA)
for two types of main products and
communicate the result to internal
and external interested parties.

The environment
is our common
­responsibility
When KE Fibertec launched the world’s first C2C ventilation duct in 2012,
CradleVent, it generated considerable enthusiasm at Gabriel, which acted
as a sparring partner during the certification process.
Our goal in the partnership was not only that KE Fibertec could go
through the certification period quickly and comfortably, but also that
our experiences in the C2C area would benefit others. For responsibility for the environment should be collective, so we share our knowledge with other companies which are seeking the same values.
With C2C certification at silver level for the CradleVent ventilation duct,
the textile duct manufacturer KE Fibertec has gained a unique position
on the ventilation market – no other manufacturer can supply a ventilation duct that complies with the strict documentation requirements
under the certification. For KE Fibertec, the C2C certification is both an
ethical and a financial step towards a sustainable future:
As a company, we want to take greater responsibility with respect to
the environment and to develop sustainable products with a place
on the market of the future. There is no doubt that the need for C2C
products is increasing: energy requirements within construction are
becoming more stringent, and a scarcity of raw materials with consequent price increases is already a critical factor in the sector. So it is
entirely natural for us to recycle materials rather than producing new
ones, says Claus Albertsen, KE Fibertec’s marketing manager.
We know the way
At CradleVent’s tender start, KE Fibertec approached Gabriel and
Milestone Pro with a view to a partnership on providing a consultancy
service on the C2C certification process. In 2010, we were the first
company in Denmark to gain C2C certification for our Gaja textile, and
we then decided that our knowledge and experience should be shared
with other companies which were also striving for the highest environmental certifications:

Our knowledge must not be restricted to our own products. On the contrary, we want to contribute to other parties’ environmental work, for
when it comes to the environment, we all have a common goal: to create
a greener future, explains Kurt Nedergaard, Business Manager, Gabriel
QEP. So we’re now offering a consultancy service on C2C certification,
and the companies which choose Gabriel as their partner avoid the long
road to certification on their own. For we’ve already been there.
The partnership makes the difference
A mere nine months later, KE Fibertec had C2C certification for CradleVent. The expectations are high, for this is a ground-breaking product
which will raise the standard throughout the ventilation sector. The
partnership with Gabriel was a decisive factor in the product’s development – a choice which Claus Albertsen has not regretted:
Gabriel’s knowledge in the area made a big difference in the development of CradleVent, and we felt confident throughout the process.
Their knowledge of pitfalls and requirements concerning documentation was indispensable.
C2C opens doors
As a result of CradleVent’s C2C certification, KE Fibertec has experienced increasing interest, especially from building architects, who
demand sustainable elements in the construction. While the ventilation
duct was previously referred to the technical advisers’ table, it has now
become a part of the vision and the expression – colours, forms and
sustainability have entered the picture where the ventilation ducts of
the future are concerned.
C2C is a good and navigable route we’ve entered thanks to Gabriel, and
we’re hoping to continue working together in the future. The journey
has only just begun, concludes Claus Albertsen.

Upholstery
will never be
the same again
Forget everything you know about upholstery materials – a revolutionary new
product has seen the light of day. It’s a material which makes no compromise
with comfort, the environment or hygiene. It’s the sector’s revolutionary
alternative to PU foam.
ZenXit consists of highly elastic and flexible polyester fibres which
are injection-moulded into an elastic three-dimensional network
structure. The moulding can be varied in density and thickness, so ­
the ­material has many areas of use.
ZenXit is extremely breathable, water-repellent, bacteria-resistant and
washable, while also maintaining its shape and supporting the body in
an appropriate and comfortable manner. This means a good upholstery
material with good temperature and moisture-regulating properties.
CSR also means giving users an increased quality of life and comfort,
and ZenXit has a promising potential in this direction.

Apart from the purely functional advantages, ZenXit also has a large
number of positive environmental qualities. The hazardous chemicals
used in the production of traditional PU foam (e.g. isocyanates, which
can cause allergy and asthma, and in isolated cases can be carcinogenic) are not used in the production of ZenXit. ZenXit can also be recycled into new products at the end of its service life.
ZenXit was developed as an alternative to the traditional PU foam on
the basis of an environmental agenda. But when the product began to
take shape, it was found that it could also solve several of the sector’s
challenges with respect to comfort and hygiene. ZenXit is thus also an
outstanding example of how innovation and development can occur
when working to solve several problems at the same time.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

30

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WORKING ENVIRONMENT

Gabriel must be able to attract and retain employees with the
right skills and knowledge to continue to be able to create innovation and growth as an international company. Gabriel attaches
a high priority to all employees using, developing and sharing
knowledge and expertise. All employees are kept informed of
Gabriel’s vision, strategy, goals and planned activities, and regularly provided with information on their work situation in employee interviews and departmental meetings. This ensures that
all employees work in accordance with clear goals and areas of
responsibility, and that their professional and personal development is stimulated.
Gabriel aims to be an attractive workplace for all employees.
Employee satisfaction measurements were therefore again made
in 2012 for both Danish and foreign employees. The average
satisfaction was 4.1 on a scale of 1-5. Each Master is given an
individual report on the basis of the survey, forming the basis

for any initiatives for improvements, and a general report is also
prepared to act as the basis for an action plan for areas of initiative throughout the company.
We also assume a social responsibility in the local community
and act as a socially committed workplace, among other ways
by providing flex jobs, internships and fit for duty test. Finally,
Gabriel wishes to support students by providing internships and
entering into training projects which can benefit both the students and the company.
We are also active in health promotion, with focus on healthy
food in the canteen. Employees are offered free fruit, there is
an annual subsidy for sports activities, and participation is arranged in the annual DHL run in Aalborg. All employees are also
covered by health insurance.

Social responsibility and the working environment: goals and results

Goals 2011/12

Results 2011/12

Goals 2012/13

Measure job satisfaction .

Job satisfaction was measured at 4.1.

Measure well-being and achieve a
result of 4.1 or better.

Hold all mandatory employee development interviews and half-yearly
follow-up interviews (not mandatory).

All mandatory interviews were held.
Follow-up interviews are in progress.

Hold all mandatory employee
­development and half-yearly
follow-up interviews.

Start recording sick days and achieve a
maximum of 3.5%.

Evaluate whether and how an OHSAS
18001 certification can be obtained
in Aalborg.

Furnmaster

– your shortcut in the furniture industry
FurnMaster offers outsourcing for furniture manufacturers who want to
place project management, production and Logistics with one supplier.
We make our global network of suppliers available and offer a unique
shortcut to the highest quality furniture production.

FurnMaster has the expertise, the possibilities and the contacts
to be able to take over everything from concept and design development to alternative/innovative textile solutions, purchasing,
production and logistics – and cover the entire value chain. Many
customers decide to place the total contract with the Master
because this frees the customer’s resources for other activities.
FurnMaster undertakes all or parts of the furniture production
from cutting the fabric to upholstering, sourcing of components,
installation and delivery to the customer. When we integrate customers’ furniture production in this way, it also means that we
collect the waste from the production process at our premises. The
result is better possibilities for recycling as we have full control of
the materials, we know their composition, and we can ensure the
right quality and quantity for subsequent recycling processes.
One of the products in FurnMaster’s product range is SilentSolution. SilentSolution is an acoustic solution for customers who
want to use sound-absorbing materials with unlimited design
possibilities. We work with two varieties of SilentSolution, both
consisting of recycled fibres.

∙∙ Recycled Grey is particularly suited to office screening. The
material is made of recycled cotton, wool and synthetic textile
fibres plus short polyester fibres and fused fibres.
∙∙ Recycled White is suitable for covering screens, ceilings, walls
and for other purposes. Recycled White consists of recycled
material from plastic bottles and polyester fibres.
Silent Solution is thus an important contribution to the use of
textile resources and closed resource cycles which also ensures
that at a minimum, the raw materials preserve their quality. The
surplus material is provided by a known supplier, thus ensuring
the product’s content, so it is possible to recycle the fibre material in a later production.

Further details at:
www.gabriel.dk/dk/business-units/furnmaster/

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

32

Gabriel Business Park

Gabriel’s home is on the street Hjulmagervej, where it all started
in 1851. The old factory buildings have now been converted into
bright offices with a sound and interesting working environment. The property now functions as Gabriel’s modern head office and the workplace for a large number of companies renting
accommodation at Gabriel Business Park. Gabriel is responsible
for operation of the building, including emergency plans.
The most important direct environmental impacts related to
Gabriel’s activities arise in connection with our activities at the
address at the business park. These are energy, heat and water
consumption and generation of waste. An allocation scheme
has been developed for environmental impacts from the various
tenants in Gabriel Business Park: at the end of the financial year,
Gabriel’s share amounted to 54% of the total property area. This
statement details the business park’s total consumption, as many
of the facilities are shared. In consultation with the tenants, a
system for measuring particularly heavy impacts has been established, where the installations are structured so that consumption can be directly attributed to the rooms used by the tenant.
Gabriel no longer needs special environmental permits to emit
waste water etc. because there is no longer any production in
Aalborg. The requirements regarding noise specified by the City

of Aalborg are complied with. The terms are given under Notes.
The emergency plan has just been updated, and Gabriel’s employees are trained in its use. A number of employees have also
taken courses in first aid and use of defibrillators. Other tenants
have been informed of the contents of the emergency plan and
encouraged to train their employees in its use.
A significant saving of 27% on energy consumption for heating
was obtained in the 2011/12 financial year, attributable to improved management of heating, including on the weekend, but
heating has also been discontinued in several places. Electricity
consumption increased by 22%, but this is attributable to tenants
in the business park with increased activity. We also expect a
further increase in energy consumption in relation to Gabriel’s
activities, as a refrigeration/air conditioning will be established
in the old textile factory.
As of 30 September 2012, Gabriel Ejendomme A/S has rented
out about 6,000 m2, corresponding to almost full occupation of
the renovated building area. Management regularly assesses
how the property’s value and income can be developed and optimised for the benefit of both tenants and owners. These considerations include consumption of electricity and heat.

Gabriel Business Park: Goals and results

Goals 2011/12

Identification of possible improvements
in the settings of heating systems,
which will result in a reduction in the
heating requirement of minimum
17.0 MWh, corresponding to 5% of the
current heating consumption.

Results 2011/12

Consumption of heat was reduced by 91
MWh, equivalent to a 27% reduction. No
correction was made for degree days.

Goals 2012/13

Maintain consumption of heat
at 251 MWh.

Establish better sorting at source
of waste from the office areas.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

33

Consolidated data
The statement covers the period 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012.

	

2011/12	2010/11	2009/10	2008/09	2007/08

Environmental data Aalborg
Key indicators and environmental data
Energy
District heating (m3)	
District heating (MWh)	
Calculated CO2 emissions (tons) 	
Calculated SO2 emissions (tons)	

23,205	31,655	35,587	
251	
342	
384	
86	
117	
131	
<1	
<1	
<1	

–	
–	
–	
–	

–
–
–
–

Electricity (MWh)	
Calculated CO2 emissions (tons)	
Calculated SO2 emissions (tons)	
Proportion renewable energy (%)	

532	435	405	
201	
194	
181	
<1	
<1	
<1	
26

–	
–	
–	

–
–
–

Total energy (MWh)	
Total calculated CO2 emissions (tons)	

782	777	790	
287	
311	
312	

–	
–	

–
–

Waste water
1,029	
860	
1,421	–	–
Waste water (m3)	
				
Waste
Industrial waste (tons)	
14.5	
16.4	
22.0	
–	
–
Cardboard for recycling (tons)	
4.3	
5.1	
5.5	
–	
–
Plastic for recycling (tons)	
1.2	
0	
1.2	
–	
–
Site use
Total lot size (m2)	
Developed area (m2)	
Roads and car park (m2) 	

31,860	31,860	31,860	
9,530	9,530	9,530	
3,715	3,715	3,715	

–	
–	
–	

–
–
–

	

Consumption of raw materials

Key indicators and environmental data
Yarn (tons):	
Polyester goods (tons):	

531	346	341	270	371
531	346	341	270	371

Environmental data Scandye

Key indicators and environmental data

Natural gas (m3) 	
Natural gas (m3/kg)	
Calculated CO2 emissions (tons)	
Electricity (MWh)	
Electricity (kWh/kg)	
Calculated CO2 emissions (tons)	
Calculated SO2 emissions (tons)	
Proportion of renewable electricity (%)	
Total calculated CO2 emissions per kg	
Waste water (m3)	
(l/kg)	

1,272,107	1,455,032	1,238,957	 994,551	 739,164
1.08	1.03	1.11	1.36	1.18
2,862	3,274	2,788	2,238	1,663
1,792	2,037	1,769	1,292	1,248
1.52	1.43	1.58	1.77	2.00
194	220	191	140	135
<1	<1	<1	<1	<1
10	
–	
–	
–	
–
2.59	2.47	2.67	3.25	2.87
164,570	223,804	191,107	148,838	112,868
140	158	171	204	180

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

34

NOTES: MEASURING METHODS AND BASIS OF CALCULATIONS

Accounting policies
This environmental report was prepared in compliance with the requirements of the EMAS regulation. Information in the report is based
on data from on-going internal and external readings and reports under the environmental management system. The environmental report
includes both absolute quantities and key figures.
Historical data
Data from before 2009/10 are not included for Aalborg because earlier
data include production. It would thus not provide a comparable picture
if these date were included. The production was finally outsourced in
May 2009 to the dye works Scandye, whose most important environmental indicators and impacts are given. Historical consumptions of
the most important raw materials have been provided for the last five
years, as this consumption is not affected by the place of production.
Key indicators
The reporting of key data follows EMAS-III recommendations to express the value A (the total annual input/impacts in the area in question), the value B (the total annual output) and the value R (the ratio
between A and B).

Energy
When converting m3 of district heating to kWh, a cooling of 35ºC is
used. The calculation of emissions of CO2 for Aalborg uses the environment declaration issued by Aalborg Fjernvarme in 2011. The district
heating used is primarily waste heat from the production of electricity.
The proportion of electricity from renewable sources is based on information in Energinet.dk’s 2011 General Declaration on Electricity.
Emissions related to the production of electricity are based on Energinet.dk’s Environment Declaration on Electricity for Green Accounts.
Information on CO2 from Enerdata is used to calculate emissions
related to electricity consumption in Lithuania. This source is more
accurate than what was previously used, and retrospective corrections
have thus been made. The Danish Gas Technology Centre’s emission
calculations for big boilers are used to calculate emissions for natural
gas consumption in Lithuania.
Emissions of NOx and CH4 are not included as the quantities emitted are
judged to be insignificant. We have noted when reviewing the environmental data that the conversion factor for SO2 emissions was used incorrectly. The data have therefore been corrected with retrospective effect.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

Waste water
Emissions of waste water in both Aalborg and Lithuania correspond to
the purchased quantities of municipal reticulated water.
Consumption of raw materials
The stated consumption of raw materials includes waste during production, which was approximately 5%. Commodities are also included.
Ratios for Scandye were calculated on the basis of Scandye’s total
consumption of raw materials, which also included raw materials
used for other companies’ productions.
Waste
Waste recorded does not include construction and metallic waste from
renovation of buildings and machinery.

35

Land use
Data for land use derive from the Ministry of Housing, Urban and Rural
Affairs’ register. Land which has not been built on includes a car park
by the river, which was a premise for the chosen placing of the company in 1851.
Requirements regarding noise
The Danish Environmental Protection Agency’s Guideline no. 5/1984,
External noise from enterprises, specifies the following requirements
regarding noise:
The company’s share – measured outdoors – to the equivalent corrected noise level in dB(A) in the specified areas may not exceed the
values below at any time:

		
H1	
H1	
		
Kærby – light industry	
Kærby – residences 	

Allotment garden 	
K.P.till.2.33	

B1	
Kærby	

R1	
Frydendal

Day:	
Monday-Friday	
06.00-18.00	
Saturday	
07.00-14.00	
Saturday	
14.00-18.00	
Sundays and holidays 	07.00-18.00	

60	
60	
60	
60	

55	
55	
45	
45	

50	
50	
45	
45	

45	
45	
40	
40	

50
50
45
45

Evening:	
All days	

18.00-22.00	

60	

45	

45	

40	

45

22.00-06.00	

60	

40	

40	

35	

45

22.00-07.00	

60	

40	

40	

35	

45

55	

55	

50	

55

Night:	
Monday-Freday	
Saturday, Sunday
and Holidays	

Maximum noise level at night:

	

	

The specified limit values for noise are based on the assumption that
they will be observed within the following periods:

In the evening from 18.00-22.00, the limit values must be observed
within the hour with the highest noise level.

The limit values for the day period 07.00-18.00 (06.00-18.00
Monday-Friday) must be observed with the noisiest eight-hour period.

For the night period 22.00-07.00 (22.00-06.00 Monday-Friday), the limit
values must be observed within the noisiest half hour.

­
CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

36

GABRIEL MASTERS

FurnMaster (established in 2003/04) offers logistics solutions, cutting, sewing, upholstering and mounting of furniture and screens for
Gabriel’s key account customers. FurnMaster’s services are deemed
central to Gabriel’s core business, and in 2011/12 they again provided
an increasing positive contribution to the Group’s operating profit,
comprising over 10% of the Group’s revenue.
The business unit holds major growth potential, which is brought to
life through the strategy “Fabrics in action” and strengthened via the
upholstery unit FurnMaster UAB.
FurnMaster UAB (established 2012) is a competitive upholstery unit
whose object is to support the Group’s strategy “Fabrics in action” via
production services within sewing and upholstering of components and
completed furniture.
Gabriel Asia Pacific (formerly Gabriel China) (established 2003), which
comprises Gabriel’s representative office and the trading company
Gabriel (Tianjin) International Trading Co. Ltd., sources products and
services to Gabriel in Europe and develops and sells products and
services to leading furniture manufacturers in Asia and the USA.
In 2011/12, both sourcing and sales were strongly increasing, and
Gabriel Asia Pacific enjoyed growth both through sales to leading local
manufacturers on the Chinese market and to other Asian and North
American markets.
SampleMaster (established in 2000/01) develops and manufactures
samples and sales literature as well as value-adding solutions in the
form of effective and attractive sales tools. The business unit’s revenue developed positively and is making a positive contribution to the
Group’s profit. The business unit is expected to be able to generate
growth in both revenue and profit in 2012/13.
Gabriel Business Park - Gabriel Ejendomme A/S (established 2011),
comprising the Group’s building complex in the centre of Aalborg,
develops and lets office premises to internal and external tenants.
The building was awarded a prize in 2010 by the Committee on prize
awards for buildings in Aalborg “for its respectful refurbishment of
old factory buildings, which underpins Aalborg’s transformation from
industrial city to a knowledge-based city”.
Reference is made to the financial review on page 23.
InnovationMaster (established 2006/07) continued its work in 2011/12
on development projects offering major but uncertain earnings potential. The projects are focused on the development of technical textiles
and related products expected to be used primarily within Gabriel’s
existing value chain.
In addition to product-oriented Innovation processes, InnovationMaster masterminded a large number of internal process innovations in
2011/12 in order to boost Gabriel’s general competitiveness.

DesignMaster (established 2006/07) is engaged in design-based
­activities and advisory services revolving around customer and end
user behaviour. Such activities are facilitated by strong market insight
and targeted research activities with a “time-to-market” horizon of
3-18 months.
The projects are carried out in Gabriel’s existing value chain and set
out to realise the potential of upholstered textiles, techniques and
related products. The business unit regularly engages in activities
relying on core competences such as textile design and finishing,
­upholstery design and technologies. In addition, design and production
of complete furniture components are included in the solutions offered
to customers.
Based on the concept “Fabrics in action” and through targeted
­communication of Gabriel’s Innovation and development strategies,
the business unit has developed a close relationship with designers,
development teams and decision-makers of designated furniture
­manufacturers.
At the beginning of the 2012/13 financial year, DesignMaster is, in
­addition to internally generated assignments, engaged in a number ­
of assignments for external Gabriel Key Accounts.
KAM-Master (established in 2006/07) coordinates the cooperation
between the individual Key Account’s organisation and Gabriel’s business units to foster maximum long-term value for each Key Account
and KAM-Master. In 2011/12, Gabriel’s Key Account Managers were
organised in six individual business units in charge of designated
­customer activities within their area.
The KAM unit was expanded throughout the 2011/12 financial year by
the appointment of additional staff in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and
Germany, and additional appointments are expected in 2012/13. The
workforce is a part of the continuing development of the Group’s focused initiatives towards selected leading manufacturers.
LogisticsMaster (established 2006/07), handles the flow of goods and
inventory management throughout the entire value chain from raw
material to textile to product supplied, and represents the primary
supporting function in one of Gabriel’s core processes, logistics.
The objective of the core process, logistics, is to ensure a strong delivery performance to all Gabriel’s customers. The reliability of supply
throughout the 2011/12 financial year was at a high level, judged to be
at the absolute top of the market.
TransportMaster (established 2009/10) is responsible for transport
services and optimum freight solutions to all Gabriel’s business units
and customers. TransportMaster also plays an important role in the
Group’s operation and development of established warehouse units
and in the establishment of new distribution centres.

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

FinanceMaster (established 2006/07) is responsible for financial management and regular financial reporting. FinanceMaster participates
actively in pinpointing value adding throughout the entire Group and is
in charge of financial and risk management. The Group’s IT operations
and development were placed under FinanceMaster in 2011/12 with
the object of basing the Group’s IT development on continuous business development and optimisation.
MarketingMaster (established 2006/07) is a full-service advertising
agency offering services to Gabriel’s business units and customers.
QEP-Master, Quality, Environment and Production (established
2006/07) supports Gabriel’s business development by optimising quality and environmental matters in connection with products, services
and processes. QEP-Master is responsible for the quality of products
and services and is accountable to its customers for all quality-related and environmental decisions in the supply chain. QEP offers
competences within quality and environmental Management, product
labelling, working environment and production.
Technology and facilities (established 2006/07) is in charge of the repair and maintenance of textile machines, including forging, machining
and electricity as well as the refurbishment of buildings.

37

CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT

Auditor’s certificate

DS Certificering A/S declares to have verified whether
below mentioned company as indicated in the environmental statement of the organization

Gabriel A/S
Hjulmagervej 55
9000 Aalborg

Issued:

2013.01.07

EMAS environmental verifier:

6003
NACE Code:

13.92.10

declares DS Certificering A/S, accredited for the scope
(NACE Code) to have verified:

Declaration
615.0001

whetherthe entire organization as indicated
in the the environmental statement of the
organisation with registration number
"DK-000048" meet all requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation by
organizations in a community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS)

Ved min underskrift erklærer jeg:

Reference to the environmental statement:

- the verification and validation has been
carried out in full compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009
- the outcome of the verification and validation
confirms that there is no evidence of noncompliance with applicable legal requirements
relating to the environment
- the data and information of the organizations
environmental statement, reflect a reliable,
credible and correct image of all the organizations activities, within the scope mentioned in
the environmental statement.

The environmental statement 2011/2012,
dated 21.12.2012, written in Danish

Niels Falk
Managing director

DS Certificering A/S
Kollegievej 6
DK 2920 Charlottenlund
Denmark

Reference to the environmental management system:

Environmental Management Manual for
Gabriel A/S, Editon dated 21.11.2012

DS Certificering A/S has verified this statement written in
Danish and does not vouch for translations of the
environmental statement into other languages.
This document is not equivalent to EMAS registration.
EMAS registration can only be granted by a Competent
Body under Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009.
This document shall not be used as isolated information to
the public

38

CSR and environmental report 2011/2012 | Gabriel A/S

Gabriel Holding A/S | Hjulmagervej 55 | 9000 Aalborg, Denmark
Phone: +45 9630 3100 | Fax: +45 9813 2544 | E-mail: mail@gabriel.dk | www.gabriel.dk

