Directors’ Report
Compensation Committee

The role of the Compensation Committee is to advise the board on the adoption of policies that govern Genmab’s
compensation programs, including warrant and benefit plans. The guidelines governing the incentive programs for
the board of directors and executive board are adopted at the annual general meeting.
The Committee supports the board in setting goals and objectives for the executive management, evaluating
performance, and deciding on annual compensation. The Compensation Committee monitors the trends within
executive management compensation plans to ensure that Genmab’s executive compensation programs are able to
attract, retain, and motivate the executive managers and align the interests of key leadership with the long-term
interest of Genmab’s shareholders.
The Committee performs an annual review of the remuneration of the board of directors which is determined
by taking into account relevant market and benchmark data. The remuneration is adopted at the annual
general meeting.
The NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen Committee on Corporate Governance recommends disclosure of remuneration
of the individual members of the board of directors and the executive management. Genmab considers its members
of executive management as a cohesive team providing the skills and competences needed to develop Genmab for
the benefit of the shareholders. Accordingly, Genmab believes that remuneration of the executive management
team should be presented at an aggregated level and that disclosure of remuneration of individuals would not
provide additional relevant information.
Genmab’s board of directors is composed as considered necessary by the Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee and the members are remunerated at market levels. As with the executive management team,
remuneration of the board of directors is not disclosed at an individual level. Total remuneration of the board of
directors and executive management is disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements which also includes a reference
to Genmab’s General Guideline for Incentive Programs for the board of directors and the executive management
pursuant to section 69(b) of the Danish Public Companies Act. According to the Recommendations, the board of
directors and the executive management shall preferably not be remunerated through share option (warrant)
schemes, and if so, such schemes shall be set up as rollover schemes with a redemption price higher than the market
price at the time of allocation. Genmab has adopted a remuneration system that we believe is most efficient to
attract and retain suitably qualified people to the board and the executive management. The board members and
the executive management participate in Genmab’s warrant schemes, under which warrants are granted at market
price on the day of grant and the warrants vest over a period of four years.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)

In 2008, the Danish Government presented its action plan for CSR. The action plan focuses on the voluntary
environmental, social, and ethical activities of businesses and aims at promoting businesses’ communication on CSR
to the outside world. With effect from the financial year commencing January 1, 2009, the Danish Financial
Statements Act has been amended mandating Danish listed companies to include a description of their CSR policies
in the directors’ report of the annual report or issue a separate report. Genmab has chosen to include the description
within the annual report.
During 2009, a CSR project group was established to determine Genmab’s CSR ambition. The purpose of the
project was to provide an overview of the CSR topics that are most relevant to Genmab and map the activities
currently undertaken by the company as well as preparing an action plan to progress Genmab’s future CSR
ambition. As a result, a business driven CSR strategy and action plan was prepared and approved by the board
of directors.
In general, Genmab’s fundamental contribution to society is inherent in the company’s mission to provide
therapeutic agents for unmet medical needs. In addition, Genmab’s CSR ambition covers four distinct areas:
• Employee well-being including health and safety and development;
• Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and clinical trials:
• Environment including waste management and recycling; and
• Business ethics and transparency
22

Genmab

Directors’ Report
Currently, Genmab has already established several CSR activities including:
-Global guidelines on safety in laboratories, including the handling of dangerous substances;
-Annual health check and vaccinations for the employees of Genmab A/S;
-Global pharma compliance guidelines in relation to interactions with healthcare professionals;
-A global policy for handling of hazardous waste; and
-A code of ethics for principal officers. Please refer to the “Risk Management” section of the annual report

In addition, the biotech and pharmaceutical industry is governed by extensive and strict regulations. Genmab is
subject to and complies with these international regulations, guidelines, and standards for drug development, such
as Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), Good Clinical Practice (GCP), and current Good Manufacturing Practice
(cGMP). The regulations and guidelines are intended to provide quality assurance of laboratory studies and clinical
trials and the processing of data resulting from the studies.
• The GLP regulations define the requirements for performing non-clinical studies in support
of regulatory filings and future clinical studies. The GLP requirements include execution of
studies using an approved protocol under the direction of a study director. The protocol
ensures that studies are performed using appropriate facilities, test compounds, analytical test
methods and are monitored by the Quality Unit.
• The GCP regulations ensure that clinical trials are conducted in accordance with
requirements for informed consent, clinical investigators, approved protocols, protection of
human subjects, monitoring of studies, and controls around clinical data. These regulations
and associated guidance documents specify requirements for conducting clinical trials that
meet ethical, medical, and data integrity expectations.
• The cGMP regulations specify the minimum requirements that must be met to ensure that
pharmaceuticals are manufactured, tested, labeled, packaged and stored according to current
Good Manufacturing Practices.
Genmab is dedicated to comply with all relevant legislation, including the guidelines issued by international
regulatory authorities such as the EMA and the FDA. Please refer to the “Risk Management” section of the
annual report.
As management believes that is important to be in compliance with all relevant regulations, laws, standards, and
guidelines and to ensure compliance with these requirements, Genmab conducts internal and external audits
according to an approved audit schedule and approved standard operation procedures.
To ensure that the CSR strategy is implemented throughout the Genmab group, the board of directors has approved
a business driven action plan which includes the following focus areas in 2010:
-Training in respect to pharma compliance guidelines;
-Employee health and safety:
-Preparation of a global environmental policy;
-Decision on relevant data and indicators to evaluate and
monitor the future CSR efforts; and
-Establishment of CSR governance structure

Genmab will also enhance the existing CSR activities during 2010 and will initiate further activities within the
CSR focus areas in the following three years.
We expect the initiated and planned CSR activities to have a positive effect on the reputation of Genmab and reduce
the risks associated with environmental, social, and ethical issues. We anticipate that the CSR initiatives will be an
attractive proposition for current and prospective employees and investors.

Annual Report 2009

23

