Statutory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) for 2014, cf. art. 99a of the Danish Financial
Statements Act
Genmab A/S
CVR no. 2102 3884

Innovating antibodies,
improving lives

Statutory report on CSR for the financial year 2014 cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements
Act (“Lovpligtig redegørelse for samfundsansvar, jf. årsregnskabslovens § 99 a”). This report is part of
the Directors’ Report in the Genmab A/S Annual Report covering the period 1 January – 31 December
2014.

Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility
Being socially responsible is at the core of how we do business at Genmab and is reflected in Genmab’s
core values. We believe in the idea that a company has a responsibility to conduct itself in a way that
benefits not only the company’s main stakeholders, in our case patients, shareholders and employees,
but also society as a whole.
At Genmab we strive to comply with all relevant laws, standards and guidelines. We seek to create new
medicines to help patients, with a focus on cancer. We consider the well-being of our employees a top
priority and we minimize our impact on the environment as much as we can. We have high ethical
standards and aim to conduct business with companies and within countries which share our ethics. We
do not conduct business in high risk countries where human rights are not upheld. Due to the fact that
we have a limited number of employees and therefore carefully allocate our resources, we have chosen
not to implement a specific human rights policy. However, Genmab supports and respects the protection
of internationally proclaimed human rights through other policies which address responsible supply chain
management, ethical procedures, health and safety procedures and issues regarding access to
medicine. In addition, Genmab only conducts clinical trials in markets where a drug is planned to
become available.
Our CSR Committee, comprised of representatives from our human resources, investor relations &
communications, legal, finance and research & development functions, ensures that Genmab carries out
these activities effectively and communicates clearly and openly about our CSR initiatives.
Our business-driven CSR strategy focuses on four main areas:
» Employee well-being including health, safety and development
» Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and clinical studies
» Environment, including waste management and recycling
» Business ethics and transparency
Genmab’s CSR report discloses the main highlights of our CSR initiatives but does not reflect all of our
ongoing initiatives and procedures. As part of our commitment to CSR we monitor new developments
and practices and consider new initiatives which could further enhance our CSR activities.

Our Core Purpose and Vision
Genmab’s commitment to CSR is inherently based in our company’s core purpose and vision. Our core
purpose
“to improve the lives of patients by creating and developing innovative antibody products”
inspires and motivates us to find new ways to improve healthcare and quality of life for patients and their
families. The antibodies we create are specifically designed to provide new treatment options to patients
with life threatening and debilitating diseases.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

2/9

Our efforts at addressing unmet medical needs have led to, among others, the creation and market
launch of Arzerra® (ofatumumab) and the creation and clinical development of daratumumab. Both
products were designated by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as Breakthrough Therapies, a
classification awarded to drugs which may demonstrate substantial improvement over available
therapies for serious or life threatening conditions.
We have identified a new over-arching vision for the company:
“By 2025 our own product has transformed cancer treatment and we have a pipeline of
knock-your-socks-off antibodies”
The vision was launched internally in 2013 and during 2014 we established cross-functional working
groups to look at four main focus areas identified as important for reaching our vision. The essence of
Genmab’s vision for the future was launched externally using a film first aired publically at the company’s
Annual General Meeting (AGM) in April 2014. The film, involving doctors discussing their view of cancer
treatments and Genmab’s CEO providing his view of the future of cancer treatment, is also available on
the company’s website, www.genmab.com. Genmab’s vision of contributing to a changing landscape
within cancer treatment, holding on to the value of products, and building a strong pipeline of products,
has also been communicated during investor meetings and media interviews during 2014.

CSR Focus: Employee well-being including health,
safety and development
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
At Genmab, our vision, core purpose, and core values guide and inspire employees in their everyday
work.
Core Values
Passion for innovation
Work as one team and respect each other
Determined – being the best at what we do
Integrity – we do the right thing
Genmab recognizes that an engaged and motivated workforce that has development opportunities will
produce better quality work. To support employee motivation, Genmab has implemented a new
Performance Planning & Review cycle and included our core values in the performance evaluation.
Furthermore, Genmab invests in the development of employee knowledge, skills and competencies as
these areas are essential for the company’s success. Various employee indicators have also been
implemented to ensure our employees are satisfied with their working conditions.
Numerous policies have been established to ensure the well-being, health and safety of our employees.
Employee well-being is addressed by corporate policies on, for example, smoking and alcohol
consumption, different forms of leave, diversity and anti-discrimination as well as health insurance plans.
In addition, regular workplace audits and employee surveys are conducted at Genmab A/S and Genmab
B.V.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

3/9

Health and safety is addressed by policies on safety in laboratories and handling of dangerous
substances. Management ensures that employees are trained to correctly handle hazardous goods and
chemicals, to manage workload and to deal with work-related stress.
Genmab’s culture is characterized by an open and supportive professional work environment across our
international locations. We believe that fostering workplace diversity across social, educational, cultural,
national, age and gender lines is a prerequisite for the continued success of the company. We are
committed to diversity at all levels of the company and strive to recruit employees with the right skills and
competences, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, etc. Genmab’s Board of Directors also takes into
consideration the opportunity to nominate candidates that may bring gender equality to the Board of
Directors in the long term in order to comply with the targets specified under good corporate governance
recommendations in Denmark. To this end, the Board of Directors has set a goal to increase the
proportion of female board members elected by the General Meeting to at least 25% by 2016. Our
gender and diversity policies, as well as the target figure, may be amended by the Board of Directors
and should be interpreted in accordance with applicable equal rights and anti-discrimination legislation in
Denmark, in force from time to time. The text in the Diversity section below fulfills the requirements of
Section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act.

2014 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
• Genmab implemented a new Performance
Planning & Review cycle and has informed
employees and trained managers on the
updated process.
• The essence of the company’s vision for the
future was launched externally at the 2014
Annual General Meeting and during publically
webcast investor presentations. The 2014
Annual Report includes a more detailed
description of our 2025 vision.
• Working groups were established to
recommend internal actions to help the
company move towards achieving the 2025
vision. Based on these recommendations,
Genmab’s Core Leadership Team began
working on prioritization of actions in line with
the company’s business strategy.
EMPLOYEE WELL BEING
• In 2014, an employee satisfaction survey was
conducted at Genmab B.V. The results of this
survey have been analyzed and improvement
points have been identified. These will be
transformed into an action plan.
• We have continued to focus on employee wellbeing. Employees are eligible for health
insurance plans which provide access to a

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•

•

•

•

•

In 2015, we will conduct a compensation
and benefits survey to ensure Genmab
provides compensation in line with industry
standards.
Identification of actions necessary to move
the company towards achieving the 2025
vision is underway. These prioritized
actions will be communicated internally
during 2015.
During 2015, Genmab will continue its focus
on succession planning and optimizing
employee retention.
In 2015, a leadership development program
for top management will be started and
rolled out to other levels of leaders in the
company.

We will continue to take employee health
and well-being seriously and offer
assistance to employees as appropriate. A
global employee survey will be conducted
across all Genmab locations in 2015. The
2015 employee survey will include
questions related to workload. Improvement
initiatives will be proposed, prioritized and

4/9

2014 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
broad array of medical care. In 2014, we
conducted a survey to evaluate employee
stress levels.

HR BENCHMARKS
• In 2014, employee turnover was 2% compared
to 5% in 2013. In addition, the seniority of our
employees was 7 years in 2014, the same as in
2013. The turnover and seniority reflect both the
current job market and Genmab’s aim to attract
and retain employees.
• Employee absence due to illness in both 2013
and 2014 was 3%. The employee absence level
is in line with the general healthcare industry
rates.
DIVERSITY
• Genmab remains committed to providing equal
opportunities for women and men at all
management levels with the aim that both
genders will represent at least 40% at
management levels.
• The Board of Directors continues to work
towards the goal of increasing the proportion of
female directors to at least 25% by 2016 which,
based on the current number of board
members, means at least one female board
member by 2016.
• At present, women are not represented in our
Executive Management. However, women are
well represented in the Senior Vice President
group, at and above the director level, and
below director level. We meet our goal of
having at least 40% of both genders at
management levels. The current male/female
ratios are outlined below.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
translated into action plans based on survey
results.
• Mandatory workplace audits will be
conducted every third year in The
Netherlands and Denmark, according to
local regulations. The next workplace audit
will take place in 2016.
• Genmab plans to hold an event gathering all
employees to further strengthen teamwork
and increase employee engagement and
motivation in 2015. The 2025 vision will be
in focus during this event.
•

Genmab will continue to focus on employee
satisfaction in an effort to minimize
employee turnover and absences so we are
in line with, or lower than, biotech industry
averages.

•

While still insisting that all positions must be
filled by the best candidate, our ambition is
that all management levels shall hold a
diverse composition with highly skilled and
very experienced employees at all levels of
the organization.
The Board of Directors evaluates the
diversity of Genmab’s management levels at
least once a year to ensure diversity. The
Board will continue to work towards its goal
of increasing the proportion of female board
directors to at least 25% by 2016. To ensure
we meet this target the Board of Directors
will make efforts to ensure a balanced slate
of male and female candidates is
considered when board vacancies become
available.

•

5/9

Male/Female Ratios

2014

2013

Male

Female

Male

Female

Genmab Group

46%

54%

47%

53%

Director level and above

56%

44%

52%

48%

Below director level

43%

57%

45%

55%

Other Key Employee Ratios

2014

2013

No.

173

157

Research and development employees

%

88%

87%

Administrative employees

%

12%

13%

Average age of workforce

No.

41 years

41 years

Number of nationalities

No.

14

10

Employees holding an advanced degree
(Ph.D., Doctoral or Master)

%

48%

45%

More than 5 years’ experience in pharma/biotech industry

%

91%

92%

FTE at the end of the year

Seniority
Employee turnover

No.

7 years

7 years

1

%

2%

5%

2

%

3%

3%

Employee absence

CSR Focus: Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and
clinical studies
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are governed by extensive and strict regulations which
are intended to provide quality assurance of pre-clinical and clinical studies and the processing of data
resulting from such studies. Genmab is subject to, and complies with, these international regulations,
guidelines, and standards for drug development, such as Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), Good Clinical
Practice (GCP), and current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP). Genmab also complies with all
relevant legislation and regulations, including guidelines issued by international regulatory authorities
such as the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the FDA. Please refer to the “Risk Management”
section of the Annual Report for 2014 for more information.
Genmab is committed to being in compliance with all relevant regulations, laws, standards and
guidelines. Therefore, Genmab’s operations are audited by relevant local authorities and Genmab
conducts internal and external audits according to an approved audit schedule and approved standard
operating procedures.
We amend our policies and guidelines to stay up to date with current regulations and business trends.
1

Employee turnover percentage is calculated by the FTE leaving since the beginning of the year divided by the average FTE.
The rate of absence is measured as absence due to the employee’s own illness, pregnancy-related sick leave, and occupational
injuries and illnesses compared with a regional standard average of working days in the year, adjusted for holidays.
2

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

6/9

For example, our quality manual and quality risk management procedures were updated in 2014. The
quality manual describes the quality policy and the quality management system covering our business
processes including management’s responsibility.
2014 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
QUALITY ASSURANCE
• Genmab has conducted internal and external
audits according to an approved audit schedule
and approved standard operating procedures.
Vendors are audited using a risk based
approach.

VENDOR SELECTION
• Genmab has updated certain standard
operating procedures to indicate that vendors
related to Clinical/Contract Research
Organizations (CROs) and Contract
Manufacturing Organizations (CMOs) shall be
asked to disclose their CSR policies or
programs. These policies are taken into
consideration in the vendor selection process
when more than one possible vendor is
available.

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•
•

•

Genmab will continue to conduct internal
and external audits for quality assurance.
In 2015, Genmab will educate our
employees to ensure readiness to meet the
requirements of the EU Clinical Trial
Regulation regarding reporting and
transparency for clinical trials.

We will continue to consider the CSR
policies of potential vendors in our vendor
selection process where possible.

CSR Focus: Environment including waste
management and recycling
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Genmab’s environmental policy outlines our commitment to protecting the environment as well as the
health and safety of our employees, collaboration and business partners and the public by conducting
business in a safe and environmentally sustainable manner. We encourage employees to act in an
environmentally friendly way, to produce as little waste as possible and to collect waste for recycling.
The management of laboratory waste at Genmab B.V. is audited annually and the waste license is
maintained in compliance with all rules and regulations. Employees working in the laboratories at
Genmab B.V. are instructed to replace highly toxic chemicals by less toxic versions where feasible.
Genmab contributes to energy-saving by using environmentally friendly climate control systems and
equipping all locations with energy saving LCD screens. We select equipment with low energy use
where possible to support office and laboratory operations. Genmab monitors the use of
environmentally friendly power sources employed by local power supply companies. Green energy is
used when the pro-green arguments can be balanced with the costs involved. Since 2012, Genmab A/S
has purchased solely wind generated power for the Copenhagen site.
We encourage employees to use public transportation to commute to work by partially reimbursing

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

7/9

incurred expenses at our European locations. Our global travel policy provides guidelines for limiting
unnecessary plane travel by employees and encourages the use of teleconferencing and
videoconferencing as an alternative to business trips.
Finally, Genmab uses recycled paper and recycling procedures have been established for old electronics
including laboratory and IT equipment. In addition, Genmab has implemented two-sided printing as
corporate standard and includes a “think-before-you-print” message in the standard e-mail signature.
2014 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
ENVIRONMENT
• Genmab continued to encourage employees to
act in an environmentally friendly manner, to
produce as little waste as possible and to collect
waste for recycling where practical.
• Genmab minimizes its environmental impact
from laboratory operations by controlled waste
treatment of chemicals.

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•

•

As our environmental impact is considered
to be limited, Genmab has decided not to
include any indicators for the environmental
area at this time. Genmab will continue to
have focus on reducing our environmental
impact where possible.
Genmab aims to further reduce the
environmental impact of its laboratory
facilities and offices when new facilities are
considered.

CSR Focus: Business Ethics and Transparency
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Genmab’s reputation as a trusted partner is crucial to our shareholders and business partners and is
essential to the company's ability to conduct business. Genmab is committed to lawful and ethical
behavior in all activities, including financial and accounting matters, and we require our employees to
comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Genmab has implemented a whistleblower program, and
the Danish Data Protection Agency and Dutch Data Protection Authority have been notified of the
processing of personal data relating to the whistleblower program. Furthermore, Genmab has
implemented a code of business ethics, which promotes the lawful and ethical behavior of all internal
stakeholders when conducting business on behalf of Genmab.
Genmab has implemented and communicated global compliance guidelines for interactions with
healthcare professionals (HCP) and promotion of pharmaceuticals. Furthermore, Genmab has guidelines
for company communications regarding products in development.
2014 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
BUSINESS ETHICS
• No issues were reported under our code of
business ethics or whistleblower program. The
whistleblower program was transferred to a
more secure and user-friendly web portal
solution hosted by an external vendor. Minor
revisions to the program were made in

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•
•

Refresher training for the code of business
ethics will be conducted in 2015.
Genmab will continue to monitor legislation
and regulations regarding interactions with
HCPs and will update the Company’s
compliance guidelines as appropriate.

8/9

2014 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
connection with this transfer.
• Genmab has continued to monitor regulations
regarding interactions with HCPs and has
updated compliance guidelines as necessary.
The guidelines were updated in 2014 in
connection with the new Danish reporting
requirements; procedures were put in place to
comply with these reporting requirements and
mandatory training was conducted.
• Refresher training regarding insider rules was
carried out in 2014 and additional procedures to
prevent insider trading were implemented.
• Genmab continues to monitor regulations
concerning website usage and privacy.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
Additional mandatory training in the
compliance guidelines will be conducted in
2015.
• Genmab will conduct refresher training on
the insider rules in 2015.

9/9

