Corporate Social Responsibility
Report 2016
Innovating antibodies,
improving lives

Statutory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
for 2016, cf. art. 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act
Genmab A/S
CVR no. 2102 3884

Statutory report on CSR for the financial year 2016 cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act (“Lovpligtig redegørelse for samfundsansvar, jf. årsregnskabslovens § 99
a”). This report is part of the Directors’ Report in the Genmab A/S Annual Report covering the period 1 January – 31 December 2016.

Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility
OUR CORE PURPOSE AND VISION
Genmab’s commitment to Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) is anchored in our company’s core
purpose “to improve the lives of patients by creating and
developing innovative antibody products” and our vision
“By 2025 our own product has transformed cancer
treatment and we have a pipeline of knock-your-socksoff antibodies.”
Our vision inspires and motivates us to find new ways to
improve healthcare and quality of life for patients and
their families. We are committed to creating
differentiated antibody products that have the potential
to provide new treatment options to patients with life
threatening and debilitating diseases. Our efforts to
address unmet medical needs have led to the creation
and market launch of DARZALEX® (daratumumab) and
Arzerra® (ofatumumab) and to the development of a
robust pipeline of pre-clinical and clinical products.
We believe we have a responsibility to ensure our
actions not only benefit our main stakeholders (patients,
shareholders and employees), but also society as a
whole. With our core values and vision in mind, being

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016

socially responsible is fundamental to the way we do
business at Genmab.

HOW WE CARRY OUT OUR CSR INITIATIVES
When carrying out our business we strive to comply with
all relevant laws, standards and guidelines. We also
consider the well-being of our employees a top priority,
and we take actions to minimize our impact on the
environment to the extent possible. We have high
ethical standards and aim to conduct business with
companies and within countries that share our ethics
and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed
human rights. As we conduct business in a highly
regulated industry, we have chosen not to implement a
specific human rights policy. It is important to us
however, to support and respect the protection of
internationally proclaimed human rights through other
policies that address responsible supply chain
management, ethical procedures, health and safety
procedures, and issues regarding access to medicine.
Genmab only conducts clinical trials in markets where a
drug is planned to become available. Furthermore,
Genmab does not employ child labor.

Our CSR Committee is comprised of representatives from
our human resources, investor relations &
communications, legal, finance and research &
development functions. The committee ensures that
Genmab carries out its CSR activities effectively and
communicates clearly and openly about them.
Our business-driven CSR strategy focuses on four main
areas:
 Employee well-being including health, safety
and development
 Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and clinical
studies
 Environment, including waste management and
recycling
 Business ethics and transparency
Genmab’s CSR report discloses the main highlights of
our CSR initiatives but does not reflect all of our ongoing
initiatives and procedures. As part of our commitment to
CSR we monitor new developments and practices and
have a process via which we consider implementing new
initiatives that could further enhance our CSR activities.

2

CSR Focus: Employee well-being including health, safety and development
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
At Genmab, our vision, core purpose, and core values
guide and inspire employees in their everyday work.

Core Values
Passion for innovation
Work as one team and respect each other
Determined – being the best at what we do
Integrity – we do the right thing
Genmab believes that an engaged and motivated
workforce that is offered development opportunities will
produce better quality work. Our Performance Planning &
Review cycle includes our core values and is designed to
support employee engagement and motivation. Genmab
invests in the development of employee knowledge,
skills and competencies as these areas are essential for
the success of the employee and to the company as a
whole. One of the key investments we have made in this
area is a leadership development program where we
further develop the skills of our leaders while nurturing
talented employees, which in turn facilitates employee

engagement and strengthens the leadership of the
company. Genmab utilizes a variety of indicators to
measure employee satisfaction. Such indicators also
allow us to consider actions to optimize our environment
or working practices should this be deemed necessary.
Genmab has numerous policies in place to ensure the
well-being, health, safety, and security of our employees.
Employee well-being is addressed by corporate policies
on, for example, smoking and alcohol consumption,
different forms of leave, diversity and anti-discrimination
as well as health insurance plans. In addition, regular
workplace audits are conducted at Genmab A/S and
Genmab B.V. and employee surveys are conducted
across all locations.
Health and safety is addressed by policies to optimize
the workplace, to manage workload and to deal with
work-related stress. These policies also include
measures to address safety in our laboratories and
handling of dangerous substances. Management
ensures that employees are trained to handle hazardous
goods and chemicals correctly.

2016 ACTIONS AND RESULTS

Teamwork is one of the central pillars of Genmab’s
culture and we therefore ensure an inclusive, open, and
supportive professional work environment across our
international locations. We believe that fostering
workplace diversity across social, educational, cultural,
national, age and gender lines is a prerequisite for the
continued success of the company. We are committed to
diversity at all levels of the company and strive to recruit
employees with the right skills and competences,
regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, etc. Genmab’s
Board of Directors set a goal to increase the proportion
of female board members elected by the General
Meeting to at least 25% by 2016. The goal was not met
in 2016, however, we will continue to work toward this
goal in 2017, while also ensuring that we select the best
candidates for board membership. The 25% goal
complies with targets specified under good corporate
governance recommendations in Denmark. Our gender
and diversity policies, as well as the target figure, may
be amended by the Board of Directors and should be
interpreted in accordance with applicable equal rights
and anti-discrimination legislation in force in Denmark.
The text in the Diversity section below fulfills the
requirements of Section 99b of the Danish Financial
Statements Act.

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES

Engagement and Development





In 2016, we conducted a global compensation and benefits survey and
implemented solutions based on the survey results. A global reward policy and
aligned grading system has been developed.
We continued to communicate to our employees about the progress we made
towards our vision during 2016 via company-wide meetings and webcasts, a video
series with members of our Core Leadership Team, and other communications
vehicles.
We continued to manage the succession planning established in 2015 and align it
with talent management activities.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016






We will continue to explain our progress towards our 2025 Vision with our
employees so that they can appreciate our achievements, understand what actions
we still need to take, and how they contribute to making the company a success.
We will implement the newly designed job architecture and banding in 2017 and
develop career pathways.
In 2017, we will continue our project to engage employees in our core values. The
project will also enable us to ensure that new employees understand our core
values going forward.
We will conduct an Employee Engagement Survey in 2017.
3

2016 ACTIONS AND RESULTS

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES





In 2017, Genmab plans to hold a company-wide meeting to strengthen teamwork,
employee engagement, and motivation.



A Security Awareness Program, which provides mandatory introductory training and
ongoing training in security matters to employees, was rolled out in early 2017.
Genmab will continue to make improvements in areas identified in the employee
engagement survey of 2015 in 2017.





We executed a customized leadership program for senior leadership in 2015 and
conducted additional workshops for senior leadership in 2016. A Leadership
Essentials program was established for employees at other levels of the company
and three cohorts of talented employees have successfully completed the program
to date.
We worked on defining an Employee Value Proposition that will help us to brand
Genmab as an employer of choice.
Based on the newly developed grading system, we are defining career pathways as
part of our efforts to maintain employee retention at an acceptable level.
We began a project to further engage our employees with our core values. The
project will be rolled out in 2017.

Employee Well Being










Based on the global employee survey of 2015, an action plan was developed and
improvements were implemented. As a result of the survey, Genmab investigated
how to keep workload within acceptable limits and workforce planning has been
adapted. Some of the improvement areas identified in the employee engagement
survey of 2015 were included in the specifications for the new facilities of Genmab
B.V. and Genmab A/S in 2017.
Mandatory workplace audits will be conducted every third year in The Netherlands
and Denmark, in compliance with local regulations. The next workplace audit will
take place in 2017/2018, related to the new Genmab R&D facilities in Utrecht and
the new facilities in Copenhagen.
Genmab employees participated in various charity activities, including a day of
volunteering and donating funds to charity.
Genmab offered first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and automated
external defibrillator (AED) training at its offices in the United States. AED training
was also offered at the offices in Copenhagen.
In 2016, Genmab implemented an IT Security Improvement Project to enhance the
security level of IT infrastructure and our facilities, as well as to increase the security
awareness of employees. The project aims to increase protection of Genmab’s
critical business information, personally identifiable information, as well as the
physical security of our employees and offices.
In 2016, Genmab B.V. appointed Health & Safety Prevention Workers to develop
initiatives to increase safety at the Utrecht site and to improve the health of the
workforce.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016



4

Diversity1







Genmab remains committed to providing equal opportunities for women and men
at all management levels. While still insisting that all positions must be filled by the
best candidate, our ambition is that all management levels shall hold a diverse
composition with highly skilled and very experienced employees at all levels of the
organization. Women are well represented in the Senior Vice President group, at
and above the director level, and below director level. We meet our goal of having at
least 40% of both genders at management levels. The current male/female ratios
are outlined below. Many nationalities are also represented by Genmab employees.
The Board of Directors evaluates the diversity of Genmab’s management levels at
least once a year to ensure diversity.
With the election of a new female board member at the 2015 Annual General
Meeting, the proportion of female board members was increased to 20%. At the
2016 Annual General Meeting, all board members were re-elected maintaining the
proportion of female board members at 20%.
Genmab B.V. will adhere to a new governmental “Participation Act” by giving
priority to the employment of people who find it difficult to gain access to paid work
because of disability or incapacity. A business case has been delivered on how to
comply with the participation act from 2018 onwards.

MALE/FEMALE RATIOS
Genmab Group
Director level and above
Below director level
Annual promotions

1

2016






Genmab will continue to focus on the gender diversity of our workforce at all levels
of the company.
The Board will continue to work towards its 2016 goal of increasing the proportion
of General Meeting elected female board directors to at least 25%. The Board of
Directors will continue its efforts to ensure a balanced slate of male and female
candidates is considered when board vacancies become available, while at the
same time ensuring that the most qualified candidates are being nominated for
election.
Further planning to ensure compliance with the participation act from 2018
onwards, including creating a limited amount of dedicated positions for employees
with a disability or incapacity, and by opening existing positions for employees that
are included in this group.

2015

Male

Female

Male

Female

46%
53%
43%
36%

54%
47%
57%
64%

44%
54%
40%
45%

56%
46%
60%
55%

This Diversity section fulfills the requirements of Section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016

5

2016 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
HR Benchmarks


In 2016, employee turnover was 8%; in 2015 it was 3%. The seniority of our
employees was 7 years in both 2016 and 2015. The turnover and seniority reflect
both the current job market and Genmab’s aim to attract and retain employees.
Employee absence due to illness in 2016 was 4% compared to 2% in 2015. The
employee absence level is in line with the general healthcare industry rates.

KEY EMPLOYEE RATIOS
FTE at the end of the year
Research and development employees
Administrative employees
Average age of workforce
Number of nationalities
Employees holding an advanced degree
(Ph.D., Doctoral or Master)
More than 5 years’ experience in pharma/biotech industry
Seniority
Employee turnover2
Employee absence3

2

2016

2015

205
86%
14%
41 years
13

186
87%
13%
41 years
12

50%

47%

78%
7 years
8%
4%

90%
7 years
3%
2%



Genmab will continue to focus on employee satisfaction and engagement. We aim
for an appropriate level of employee turnover and an absence rate in line with
healthcare industry rates.

Employee turnover percentage is calculated by the FTE voluntarily leaving since the beginning of the year divided by the average FTE.

3

The rate of absence is measured as absence due to the employee’s own illness, pregnancy-related sick leave, and occupational injuries and illnesses compared with a regional standard average of working days in the year, adjusted for
holidays.
Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016

6

CSR Focus: Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and clinical studies
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are
governed by extensive and strict regulations that are
intended to provide quality assurance of pre-clinical and
clinical studies and the processing of the resulting data.
Genmab is subject to, and complies with, these
international regulations, guidelines, and standards for
drug development, such as Good Laboratory Practice
(GLP), Good Clinical Practice (GCP), and current Good

Manufacturing Practice (cGMP). Genmab also complies
with all relevant legislation and regulations, including
guidelines issued by international regulatory authorities
such as the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Please refer to
the “Risk Management” section of the Annual Report for
2016 for more information.

2016 ACTIONS AND RESULTS

Genmab is committed and strives to comply with all
relevant regulations, laws, standards, and guidelines.
Genmab’s operations are audited by relevant local
authorities and Genmab conducts internal and external
audits according to an approved audit schedule and
approved standard operating procedures.
In addition, we amend our policies and guidelines to
stay in line with current regulations and business trends.

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES

Quality Assurance


Genmab has conducted internal and external audits according to an approved audit
schedule and approved standard operating procedures. Vendors are audited using a
risk-based approach.



Genmab will continue to conduct internal and external audits for quality assurance.



Genmab will continue to consider the CSR policies of current and potential vendors
as part of our vendor management process.

Vendor Management



We continue to consider the CSR policies in our management of vendors via
standard operating procedures.
In 2016, Genmab aligned the vendor management process across our sites.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016

7

CSR Focus: Environment including waste management and recycling
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Genmab’s environmental policy outlines our
commitment to protecting the environment as well as the
health and safety of our employees, business partners
and the public by conducting business in a safe and
environmentally sustainable manner. We encourage
employees to act in an environmentally friendly way, to
produce as little waste as possible and to collect waste
for recycling. The management of laboratory waste at
Genmab B.V. is audited annually and the waste license
is maintained in compliance with all rules and
regulations. Employees working in the laboratories at
Genmab B.V. are instructed to replace highly toxic
chemicals with less toxic versions where feasible.

Genmab aims to save energy by using environmentally
friendly climate control systems and equipping all
locations with energy saving LCD screens. We select
office and laboratory equipment that require low energy
usage when possible. Genmab monitors the use of
environmentally friendly power sources employed by
local power supply companies. Green energy is used
when the pro-green arguments can be balanced with the
costs involved. Since 2012, Genmab A/S has purchased
solely green energy for the Copenhagen site.

plane travel by employees and has invested in online
meeting infrastructure to encourage the use of
teleconferencing and videoconferencing as an
alternative to business trips.
Finally, Genmab uses recycled paper and recycling
procedures have been established for old electronics
including laboratory and IT equipment. In addition,
Genmab has implemented two-sided printing as
corporate standard and includes a “think-before-youprint” message in the standard e-mail signature.

At our European locations, we encourage employees to
use public transportation to commute to work by
partially reimbursing commuting expenses. Our global
travel policy provides guidelines for limiting unnecessary

2016 ACTIONS AND RESULTS

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES

Environment




Genmab continued to encourage employees to act in an environmentally friendly
manner, to produce as little waste as possible and to collect waste for recycling
where practical.
Genmab minimizes its environmental impact from laboratory operations by
controlled waste treatment of chemicals.
The new facility for Genmab B.V. is currently being built and expected to be finalized
in 2017. Reduction of environmental impact is guaranteed by having a BREEAM
(Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) Excellent
certification for the building. The new facility will be the first laboratory in The
Netherlands to obtain a BREEAM Excellent certification.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016




As our environmental impact is considered limited, Genmab has decided not to
include any indicators for the environmental area at this time. Genmab will continue
to have focus on reducing our environmental impact where possible.
Genmab will continue to minimize its environmental impact from laboratory
operations by controlled waste treatment of chemicals.

8

CSR Focus: Business Ethics and Transparency
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Genmab’s reputation as a trusted partner is crucial to our
shareholders and business partners and is essential to
the company's ability to conduct business. Genmab is
committed to lawful and ethical behavior in all activities,
including financial and accounting matters, and we
require our employees to comply with all applicable laws
and regulations. Genmab maintains a whistleblower

program and provided notification to the Danish Data
Protection Agency and Dutch Data Protection Authority
regarding the processing of personal data relating to the
whistleblower program. Furthermore, Genmab continues
to adhere to its code of business ethics, which promotes
the lawful and ethical behavior of all internal
stakeholders when conducting business on behalf of
Genmab.

2016 ACTIONS AND RESULTS

Genmab has implemented and communicated global
compliance guidelines for interactions with healthcare
professionals (HCP) and promotion of pharmaceuticals.
Furthermore, Genmab has guidelines for company
communications regarding products in development.

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES

Business Ethics





No issues were reported under our code of business ethics or whistleblower
program.
Refresher training for the code of business ethics was conducted in the beginning of
2017.
Genmab continues to monitor legislation and regulations regarding interactions
with HCPs. The Company’s compliance guidelines were updated in 2016, and
mandatory training was conducted in 2016 and the beginning of 2017.
Refresher training for the insider rules to employees was conducted in 2016.
Genmab has established new processes and procedures regarding insider
information to comply with the new Market Abuse Regulation (EU Regulation No
596/2014) which entered into force on July 3, 2016.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016







Genmab will continue to monitor legislation and regulations regarding interactions
with HCPs and will update the Company’s compliance guidelines and conduct
training as appropriate.
Genmab will commence the implementation of new processes and procedures to
ensure compliance with the new EU General Data Protection Regulation No
2016/679 which entered into force in May 2016 and which becomes applicable in
May 2018.
Refresher training for the insider rules will be held in 2017.
Refresher training in pharma compliance and company communications regarding
products in development will be held in 2017.

9

