Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)

In 2008, the Danish Government presented its action plan
for CSR. The action plan focuses on the voluntary environmental, social, and ethical activities of businesses and
aims at promoting businesses’ communication on CSR to
the outside world.
Genmab has chosen to include the CSR description
within the annual report.
During 2009, a CSR project group was established to
determine Genmab’s CSR ambition. The purpose of the
project was to provide an overview of the CSR topics that
are most relevant to Genmab and map the activities currently undertaken by the company as well as preparing an
action plan to progress Genmab’s future CSR ambition. As a
result, a business driven CSR strategy and action plan was
prepared and approved in 2009 by the board of directors.
In general, Genmab’s fundamental contribution to
society is inherent in the company’s mission to provide
therapeutic agents for unmet medical needs and to
improve patients’ lives. Genmab has chosen to focus on
products to treat various cancers and we have a number
of potential products in clinical trials. As of December 31,
2010, Genmab had 29 ongoing clinical trials.
In 2009, Genmab received its first product approval
when FDA gave an accelerated approval of Arzerra for use
in patients in the US with CLL that is refractory to fludarabine and alemtuzumab and in April 2010, the European
Commission also granted a conditional marketing authorization for Arzerra. During 2010, our partner, GSK, has
successfully launched Arzerra in the US and Europe. We
are encouraged and motivated by seeing, through a direct
result of our efforts, that patients’ lives are being transformed by treatment with Arzerra.

Genmab’s CSR ambition is to be in compliance with all relevant laws, standards and guidelines. In addition, Genmab
has selected focus areas on the CSR agenda where the
company will excel; focus areas have been chosen based
on a business case evaluation and will be adjusted and
expanded as deemed necessary. Genmab’s CSR ambition
covers four distinct areas:

» Employee well-being including health and safety and development

» Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and clinical studies
» Environment including waste management and recycling
» Business ethics and transparency

As planned in 2010 a CSR governance structure (task force)
was established to ensure that the CSR strategy and action plan is implemented throughout the Genmab group.
Genmab will enhance the existing CSR activities during 2011
and will initiate further activities within the CSR focus areas
in the following years. See the planned activities below.
We expect the initiated and planned CSR activities to
have a positive effect on the reputation of Genmab and
reduce the risks associated with environmental, social, and
ethical issues. We anticipate that the CSR initiatives will
be an attractive proposition for current and prospective
employees and investors.

33

DIRECTORS REPORT

CSR Focus
EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING INCLUDING HEALTH AND SAFETY AND DEVELOPMENT

» POLICIES AND GUIDELINES

Genmab management currently has a strong focus on the reten-

Genmab has numerous policies in place to ensure the well-being,

tion, motivation and engagement of its employees. This has

health and safety and development of its employees. The area

become more important since the workforce reductions between

of employee well-being is mostly covered by corporate policies

2008 and 2010. Genmab has decided not to include any indicators

regarding regular physical and mental workplace checks, smoking

for the HR area in 2010 due to these reductions. However, future

and alcohol, different forms of leave, diversity and anti-discrimi-

indicators will be considered in 2011.

nation and a local policy regarding the prevention of work-related
stress (Genmab A/S). The area of health and safety is mostly

Genmab considers the development of its employees as a key factor

covered by policies regarding safety in laboratories and handling

for the success of the company. Therefore Genmab invests in training

of dangerous substances (Genmab B.V.) and a policy on annual

and development of its employees and has started to conduct per-

health checks and vaccinations (Genmab A/S).

sonal development interviews. During these interviews, development

» ACTION AND RESULTS
Genmab management is focused on employee well-being. Management assures that employees are trained in the prevention of possible harmful effects in the workplace, how to handle hazardous

needs, ambitions and drivers of the employee are being discussed
and how these relate to Genmab. At Genmab B.V. and Genmab A/S a
team development program is being scheduled for 2011.

» FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES – 2011 AND ONWARDS

goods and chemicals (Genmab B.V.), how to manage workload and

Genmab expects to implement a new Performance Planning &

to enhance motivation (Genmab B.V.) and how to deal with work-

Review cycle at all Genmab locations and to implement its newly

related stress (Genmab A/S).

defined core values in 2011 at a company wide event. An Employee
Satisfaction Survey will be conducted in 2011.

CSR Focus
ETHICS IN RELATION TO PRE-CLINICAL AND CLINICAL STUDIES

» POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
In general, the biotech and pharmaceutical industry is governed

to ensure compliance with these requirements, Genmab conducts

by extensive and strict regulations. Genmab is subject to and

internal and external audits according to an approved audit sched-

complies with these international regulations, guidelines, and

ule and approved standard operation procedures.

standards for drug development, such as Good Laboratory Practice
(GLP), Good Clinical Practice (GCP), and current Good Manufactur-

In 2010 Genmab adopted a business model based on the principle

ing Practice (cGMP). The regulations and guidelines are intended

of outsourcing of development activities to Contract Research

to provide quality assurance of pre-clinical and clinical studies and

Organization (CROs). In connection with this change, a corporate

the processing of data resulting from the studies.

compliance project was finalized to ensure that Genmab’s drug
development organization’s standard operating procedures were in

Genmab is dedicated to comply with all relevant legislation, includ-

compliance with the regulatory requirements for drug development

ing the guidelines issued by international regulatory authorities

under the new business model. This also covered all Quality docu-

such as the EMA and the FDA. Please refer to the “Risk Manage-

ments such as policies, procedures and guidelines.

ment” section.

» ACTION AND RESULTS

34

» FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES – 2011 AND ONWARDS
Genmab will continue to conduct internal and external audits

As management believes that is important to be in compliance

according to an approved audit schedule and approved standard

with all relevant regulations, laws, standards, and guidelines and

operation procedures.

Genmab Annual Report 2010

CSR Focus
ENVIRONMENT INCLUDING WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING

» POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
All relevant policies regarding environmental care have been includ-

Genmab restricts its employees’ use of travel by plane and encour-

ed in the Employee and Facilities Handbooks. Genmab encourages

ages the use of teleconferencing and videoconferencing instead of

employees to act in an environmentally friendly manner, to produce

business trips. This has not only saved money but may contribute to

as little waste as possible and to collect waste for recycling where

a reduction in CO2 emissions. Genmab is planning to decrease paper

practicable. The Genmab B.V. management of lab waste is audited

consumption and has partially implemented the recycling of non-

annually and the waste license is maintained on the basis of compli-

confidential paper waste, and encourages “green” bike deliveries.

ance with all rules and regulations. Genmab B.V. lab employees are
instructed to replace highly toxic chemicals by less toxic versions

Genmab has decided not to include any indicators for the environ-

where feasible.

mental area in 2010 due to the reduction in employees mentioned
above. However, future indicators will be considered in 2011.

Genmab contributes to energy-saving by using an environmentally
friendly climate control system (Genmab B.V.) and to equip all loca-

» FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES – 2011 AND ONWARDS

tions with energy saving light switches and LCD screens. Genmab

Genmab A/S aims to have an environmental policy implemented in

monitors the use of environmentally friendly power sources employed

2011. This policy will be used as best practice for all Genmab loca-

by local power supply companies. Green energy is used when the pro-

tions.

green arguments can be balanced with the costs involved.

» ACTION AND RESULTS

For 2011, Genmab plans to use recycled paper for all printers and
copiers, to implement two-sided printing as corporate standard and

Genmab management tries to draw attention to environmental

to have a “think-before-you-print” message included in the standard

care. Genmab encourages its employees to use public transport

e-mail signature. Genmab B.V. plans to have all lab plastics recycled

to come to work by partially reimbursing the incurred expenses.

after use.

CSR Focus
BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY

» POLICIES AND GUIDELINES

» ACTION AND RESULTS

As mentioned in the “Risk Management” section, Genmab is commit-

As planned for 2010 training has been conducted of Genmab em-

ted to lawful and ethical behavior in financial and accounting matters

ployees in the pharma compliance guidelines and our whistleblower

as well as other activities and requires its employees to conduct

program has been implemented upon approval by the Danish Data

themselves in a manner that complies with all applicable laws and

Protection Agency. The whistleblower policy has been made acces-

regulations.

sible on Genmab’s intranet. Training of new employees in these
guidelines and policies will be held as necessary.

Genmab has implemented global pharma compliance guidelines in
relation to interactions with healthcare professionals and a code of

» FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES – 2011 AND ONWARDS

ethics for principal officers. Furthermore, Genmab has guidelines

During 2011, we expect to implement and communicate a code of

for Company communications regarding products in development.

ethics for all our employees.

35

