Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Statutory Report 2013
Genmab A/S
CVR nr. 21 02 38 84

Innovating antibodies,
improving lives

Statutory report on CSR for the financial year 2013 cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements
Act (“Lovpligtig redegørelse for samfundsansvar, jf. årsregnskabslovens § 99 a”). This report is part of
the Directors’ Report in the Genmab A/S Annual Report covering the period 1 January – 31 December
2013.
Genmab’s core purpose is
to improve the lives of patients by creating and developing innovative antibody products
Our core purpose inspires and drives us to find new ways to improve healthcare and quality of life for
patients and their families. The antibodies we create are specifically designed to provide new treatment
options to patients with life threatening and debilitating diseases.
Our efforts at addressing unmet medical needs have led to, among others, the creation and market
launch of Arzerra® (ofatumumab) and the creation and clinical development of daratumumab. Both
ofatumumab and daratumumab have been designated by the US regulatory authority (FDA) as
Breakthrough Therapies, a classification awarded to drugs which may demonstrate substantial
improvement over available therapies for serious or life threatening conditions.
Genmab seeks to achieve our goal of improving patients’ lives while conducting business in a
responsible and ethical way, ensuring a safe and inspiring workplace for employees and minimizing
environmental impact.
Genmab does not conduct business in high risk countries where human rights are not upheld. We have
not implemented a specific human rights policy; however, Genmab supports and respects the protection
of internationally proclaimed human rights through other policies which address responsible supply chain
management, ethical procedures, health and safety procedures and issues regarding access to
medicine. In addition, Genmab conducts clinical trials only in markets where a drug is planned to
become available.
Genmab is a socially responsible company which complies with all relevant laws, standards and
guidelines by maintaining a strong corporate governance structure. We expect our CSR activities to
reduce environmental, social and ethical risks for the company. We communicate clearly and openly
about our CSR activities in order to inform all our stakeholders of our efforts.
To improve transparency and to ensure our CSR initiatives are carried out effectively, Genmab has
established a CSR Steering Committee comprised of representatives from our human resources,
investor relations & communications, legal, finance and research & development functions.
Genmab’s CSR report discloses the main highlights of our CSR initiatives but does not reflect all of our
ongoing initiatives and procedures. As part of our commitment to CSR we monitor new developments
and practices and consider new initiatives which could further enhance our CSR activities.
Our business-driven CSR strategy focuses on four main areas:
» Employee well-being including health, safety and development
» Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and clinical studies
» Environment, including waste management and recycling
» Business ethics and transparency

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

2/9

CSR Focus: Employee well-being including health,
safety and development
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
At Genmab, our core purpose, together with our core values, guides and inspires employees in their
everyday work.
Core Values
Passion for innovation
Work as one team and respect each other
Determined – being the best at what we do
Integrity – we do the right thing
Skill, knowledge, experience and employee motivation are essential to Genmab as a biotech company.
The ability to organize our highly skilled and very experienced employees at all levels of the organization
into interactive teams is a key factor in achieving our strategy and to ensure Genmab’s success.
Genmab’s team is very experienced in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, particularly
among the more senior personnel.
Genmab also recognizes that an engaged and motivated workforce that has development opportunities
will produce better quality work. To increase employee motivation, Genmab has implemented
Performance Planning & Review and Competency Review cycles and integrated our core values with
performance reviews as an integral part of the performance evaluation. Furthermore, Genmab invests in
the development of employee knowledge, skills and competencies. Finally various employee indicators
have also been implemented.
Numerous policies have been established to ensure the well-being, health and safety of company
employees. Employee well-being is addressed by corporate policies on e.g. smoking and alcohol
consumption, different forms of leave, diversity and anti-discrimination as well as health insurance plans.
In addition regular workplace audits are conducted in Genmab A/S and Genmab B.V.
Health and safety is addressed by policies on safety in laboratories and handling of dangerous
substances (Genmab B.V.). Management ensures that employees are trained to correctly handle
hazardous goods and chemicals (Genmab B.V.) and to manage workload and to deal with work related
stress (Genmab A/S).
Genmab’s culture is characterized by an open and supportive professional work environment across our
international locations. Genmab believes that fostering workplace diversity is a prerequisite for the
continued success of the company. Diversity is interpreted broadly and beyond gender to ensure equal
opportunities, non-discrimination and an inclusive working culture. We aim for diversity across social,
educational and cultural background as well as nationality, age and gender. While insisting that all our
positions must be filled by the best candidate, our ambition is that all management levels shall hold a
diverse composition.
Genmab is committed to continue working towards and maintaining equal opportunities for women and
men at all management levels in the Genmab group. Genmab encourages talented male and female

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

3/9

employees to pursue a career in the company. Genmab regularly conducts employee surveys and
employee development interviews to identify barriers – or the perception of barriers – preventing equal
opportunities for men and women. In connection with recruitment, including recruitment at management
level, it is Genmab group policy to strive to recruit employees with the right skills and competences,
regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, etc. When choosing between equally qualified candidates, the
diversity among the employees shall be taken into consideration, as it is the aim that both genders attain
a representation at management levels of at least 40%. In connection with recruitment for managerial
positions it must be ensured, where possible, that the candidates invited for interview include both men
and women. The company's focus on diversity among its employees, including at management levels,
must be visible during recruitment. The policy may be amended by the Board of Directors and should be
interpreted in accordance with applicable equal rights and anti-discrimination legislation in Denmark, in
force from time to time.
At the General Meeting of Genmab A/S, the Board of Directors proposes election of the most suitable
candidates based on, amongst other criteria, the skill set requirements for board of directors of biotech
companies. In connection with the proposals for election, the Board of Directors takes into consideration
the opportunity to propose election of candidates that may bring gender equality to the Board of
Directors on the long term. According to its “Target Figure for Women in the Board of Directors of
Genmab A/S” it is the aim of the Board of Directors that the proportion of female board members elected
by the General Meeting is increased to at least 25% by 2016. The target figure may be amended by the
Board of Directors and should be interpreted in accordance with applicable equal rights and antidiscrimination legislation in Denmark, in force from time to time.
2013 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
• Genmab continued to monitor and improve its
Performance Planning & Review process.
• A company vision for 2025 was launched
internally in 2013.

EMPLOYEE WELL BEING
• A mandatory workplace assessment survey
conducted every 3rd year in Denmark serves as
the basis for employee satisfaction surveys for
Genmab A/S. Genmab A/S conducted a survey
in 2013 and initiated an action plan to handle
findings and implement improvements. In
addition, Genmab A/S received a green smiley,
the second highest rating possible following an
audit of the Danish Working Environment
Authority, indicating that Genmab A/S has no
issues with the Working Environment Authority.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•
•

•

•

A new performance cycle will be
implemented in 2014.
Initiatives to consider which internal actions
are needed to move the company towards
achieving the new vision, are underway.
The essence of the company’s vision was
included in certain publically webcast
investor presentations during 2013 and it is
expected that further initiatives to
communicate the vision externally will occur
during 2014.

Survey to be conducted in Genmab B.V. in
2015. Improvement initiatives will be
proposed, prioritized and translated into
action plans based on survey results.
To maintain the low employee turnover and
to be able to attract talented and highly
skilled employees, we will continue to focus
on employee well-being and having a good
and healthy workplace. All employees are
eligible for a health insurance plan, which
ensures fast and professional help,

4/9

2013 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
• Genmab held an event gathering together all
Genmab employees to further strengthen
teamwork across different functional and
cultural backgrounds and skills. The feedback
from the event was very positive.
HR BENCHMARKS
• Employee turnover for 2013 was approximately
5%, compared to 6% in 2012. In addition the
seniority of our employees is 7 years in 2013
which was unchanged compared to 2012. The
turnover and seniority reflect both the current
job market and Genmab’s aim to attract and
retain employees.
• In 2013 Genmab began tracking absence
indicators. Employee absence was
approximately 3% in 2013 compared to 2% in
2012.
DIVERSITY
• As mentioned above diversity is interpreted
broadly to ensure equal opportunities. Please
refer to the key employee ratios overview below
for further details about the diversity within the
Genmab Group.
• Genmab has implemented a Gender Policy as
part of its commitment to provide equal
opportunities for women and men at all
management levels. The aim is that both
genders will represent at least 40% at
management levels. The Board of Directors has
set a goal of increasing the proportion of female
directors to at least 25% by 2016 which, based
on the current number of board members,
means at least one female board member by
2016.
• At present, none of the members of the Board
of Directors or the Executive Management are
women. However, women are well represented
in the Senior Vice President group and at the
Director level and above, with 40% and 48% of
the groups respectively composed of women.
This meets our goal for diversity of having at
least 40% of both genders at management
levels. The current male/female ratios are
outlined below.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
counseling and treatment at private
hospitals and from psychologists etc.,
should the need arise. We will continue to
work actively to counteract stress and focus
on stress indicators in daily work life and
offer help in handling stress as needed.
•

Employee turnover and absences will be
benchmarked against generally accepted
industry standards and actions will be taken
as needed.

•

While still insisting that all positions must be
filled by the best candidate, our ambition is
that all management levels shall hold a
diverse composition with highly skilled and
very experienced employees at all levels of
the organization.
The Board of Directors evaluates the
diversity of Genmab’s management levels at
least once a year to ensure diversity. The
Board will continue to work towards its goal
of increasing female board directors to at
least 25% by 2016. To ensure meeting this
target the Board of Directors will make
efforts to ensure a balanced slate of male
and female candidates is considered when
board vacancies become available.
In 2014, Genmab will continue its efforts
and commitment towards equal
opportunities for women and men at all
management levels.

•

•

5/9

Male/Female Ratios

2013
Male
47%

Genmab Group
Director level and above
Below director level

2012

Female
53%

52%
45%

Male
53%

48%
55%

Other Key Employee Ratios

Female
47%

56%
52%

44%
48%

2013

2012

No.

157

179

Research and development employees

%

87%

89%

Administrative employees

%

13%

11%

Average age of workforce

No.

41 years

40 years

Number of nationalities

No.

10

8

Employees holding an advanced degree
(Ph.D., Doctoral or Master)

%

45%

40%

More than 5 years’ experience in pharma/biotech industry

%

92%

85%

FTE at the end of the year

Seniority
Employee turnover

No.

7 years

7 years

1

%

5%

6%

2

%

3%

2%

Employee absence

CSR Focus: Ethics in relation to pre-clinical and
clinical studies
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are governed by extensive and strict regulations which
are intended to provide quality assurance of pre-clinical and clinical studies and the processing of data
resulting from the studies. Genmab is subject to, and complies with, these international regulations,
guidelines, and standards for drug development, such as Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), Good Clinical
Practice (GCP), and current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP). Genmab also complies with all
relevant legislation and regulations, including guidelines issued by international regulatory authorities
such as the EMA and the FDA. Please refer to the “Risk Management” section of the Annual Report for
2013.
Management believes that it is of fundamental importance to be in compliance with all relevant
regulations, laws, standards and guidelines. Therefore, Genmab conducts internal and external audits
according to an approved audit schedule and approved standard operating procedures.

1

Employee turnover percentage is calculated by the FTE leaving since the beginning of the year divided by the average FTE.
The rate of absence is measured as absence due to the employee’s own illness, pregnancy-related sick leave, and occupational
injuries and illnesses compared with a regional standard average of working days in the year, adjusted for holidays.

2

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

6/9

Genmab amends its policies and guidelines to stay up to date with current regulations and business
trends. Our quality manual and quality risk management procedures were updated in 2011. The quality
manual describes the quality policy and the quality management system covering our business
processes including management’s responsibility. A global records management system was
implemented in 2012.

2013 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
QUALITY ASSURANCE
• Training sessions for our global records
management system were conducted in 2012
and 2013.

VENDOR SELECTION
• In 2013 we implemented ethical, social and
environmental conditions as part of our vendor
selection process for all new potential vendors
related to Clinical/Contract Research
Organizations (CROs) and Contract
Manufacturing Organizations (CMOs).

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•

Genmab will continue to conduct internal
and external audits according to an
approved audit schedule and approved
standard operating procedures. Vendors are
audited using a risk based approach.

•

As part of our future vendor selection
process, Genmab will require new vendors
to share their CSR policies and take these
into consideration when evaluating
proposals. Further initiatives will be
considered and appropriate actions will be
taken if needed.

CSR Focus: Environment including waste
management and recycling
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Genmab implemented a group environment policy in 2011 in which we commit to protecting the
environment and the health and safety of our employees, collaboration and business partners and the
public by conducting business in a safe and environmentally sustainable manner. Genmab encourages
employees to act in an environmentally friendly manner, to produce as little waste as possible and to
collect waste for recycling where practicable. The management of lab waste at Genmab B.V. is audited
annually and the waste license is maintained in compliance with all rules and regulations. Genmab B.V.
lab employees are instructed to replace highly toxic chemicals by less toxic versions where feasible.
Genmab contributes to energy-saving by using environmentally friendly climate control systems and
equipping all locations with energy saving LCD screens. We also enter service contracts for equipment
such as copy machines when possible, which results in better maintenance, lower electricity use and
lower carbon dioxide emissions. Genmab monitors the use of environmentally friendly power sources
employed by local power supply companies. Green energy is used when the pro-green arguments can
be balanced with the costs involved. Since 2012, Genmab A/S has purchased solely wind generated
power for the Copenhagen site. Further, Genmab reduced electricity consumption by relocating
Genmab A/S and Genmab US, Inc. to smaller offices in 2012.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

7/9

Genmab encourages its employees to use public transport when traveling to work by partially
reimbursing the incurred expenses at its European locations. Through its global travel policy Genmab
restricts its employees’ use of travel by plane and encourages the use of teleconferencing and
videoconferencing as an alternative to business trips.
Finally, Genmab uses recycled paper for all printers and copiers, and procedures have been established
for recycling and handling of old electronic equipment including laboratory and IT equipment. In addition,
Genmab has implemented two-sided printing as corporate standard and includes a “think-before-youprint” message in the standard e-mail signature.
2013 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
ENVIRONMENT
• Genmab continued to encourage employees to
act in an environmentally friendly manner, to
produce as little waste as possible and to collect
waste for recycling where practical.
•
Genmab minimizes its environmental impact
from lab operations by controlled waste
treatment of chemicals.

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•

Genmab aims to increase employee
awareness and involvement in minimizing
environment impact in 2014.

•

As our environmental impact is considered
to be limited, Genmab has decided not to
include any indicators for the environmental
area at this time. Genmab will continue to
have focus on reducing our environmental
impact, where possible.

CSR Focus: Business Ethics and Transparency
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
As a biotechnology company, Genmab’s reputation as a trusted partner is crucial to its shareholders and
business partners and is essential to the company's ability to conduct business. Genmab is committed to
lawful and ethical behavior in financial and accounting matters, as well as all other activities, and
requires its employees to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Genmab has implemented a
whistleblower program which is approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency.
In 2011, a code of business ethics for all our employees was implemented and communicated. The code
of business ethics aims to promote the lawful and ethical behavior of all internal stakeholders when
conducting business on behalf of Genmab.
Genmab has implemented and communicated global compliance guidelines for interactions with
healthcare professionals and promotion of pharmaceuticals. Furthermore, Genmab has guidelines for
company communications regarding products in development.

2013 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
BUSINESS ETHICS
• No issues were reported under our code of
business ethics or whistleblower program.
Refresher training regarding the code of
business ethics was conducted in 2013. The

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
•

Additional training will be conducted as
appropriate.

8/9

2013 ACTIONS AND RESULTS
whistleblower program was audited in 2013 by
the Danish Data Protection Agency with no
major findings.
• Global compliance guidelines for interactions
with healthcare professionals and promotion of
pharmaceuticals were implemented in 2009.
The guidelines were updated in 2013 and
mandatory training was conducted.

•
•

Refresher training regarding insider rules was
carried out in 2013.
A cookie policy was implemented on Genmab’s
website to inform users about how their website
usage is analyzed in order to comply with
Danish law.

Genmab Statutory Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013

FUTURE EXPECTATIONS AND ACTIVITIES

•

•
•

Genmab will continue to monitor regulations
regarding interaction with healthcare
professionals and will update the
Company’s compliance guidelines as
appropriate. Additional training for the
compliance guidelines will be conducted in
2014.
Additional training will be conducted as
appropriate.
Genmab will continue to monitor regulations
concerning website usage and privacy.

9/9

