Corporate Governance

Corporate Social Responsibility
The production of power from wind turbines does not
cause any emission of CO2 or other greenhouse gases, and
wind power is therefore more friendly to the environment
than fossil fuels, which give rise to greenhouse gas emissions when coal and oil is transported to the power plants
and when a power plant burns fossil fuels.
Environmental permits are required for all of Greentech’s
projects. At every stage of the projects, Greentech pursues
business procedures to ensure compliance with environmental laws. In order to obtain environmental and
building permits, Greentech and its partners must conduct
a number of surveys at each site. For example, an in-depth
analysis must be performed of how the project will interact with the local environment. Particular considerations
must be made for the landscape, the local population,
plant and animal life, and there must be actual communications with the local authorities and interest groups.
In 2009, Greentech will continue to work more systematically with aspects of environmental and social sustainability. In its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts,
Greentech seeks inspiration from the UN Global Compact
– the ten recognised principles concerning the environment, human rights, employee rights and anticorruption
defined by the UN as a set of guidelines for corporate
efforts to achieve a more sustainable economy.

These are the principles that businesses should:
• support and respect the protection of internationally
proclaimed human rights within the area in which it
operates and has influence;
• make sure that they are not complicit in human rights
abuses;
• uphold the freedom of association and the effective
recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
• support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
• support the effective abolition of child labour;
• support the elimination of discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation;
• support a precautionary approach to environmental
challenges;
• undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental
responsibility;
• encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies;
• work against all forms of corruption, including extortion
and bribery.
Greentech supports and complies with these principles.
The Company’s further CSR initiatives therefore involves
adopting the principles by defining specific targets and
ensuring that the Company can follow up on such targets.
Greentech will also gradually incorporate CSR as part of its
requirements to suppliers and business partners.

27

