Account of corporate social responsibility – CSR
A contributor to sustainable growth

Greentech is very much aware of the Company’s role as
a player in society in a local, national and international
context. This means that the Company makes targeted
efforts to ensure that its core business area and activities
are developed in a financially, environmentally and
socially responsible manner by both complying with
statutory requirements and taking voluntary CSR
initiatives in the countries and communities in which
Greentech operates.
Through the Company’s core business of producing and
selling renewable energy, Greentech directly contributes
to set a positive footprint in terms of reducing the
environmental and climate impact.
• Greentech offers an alternative to the dependency on
scarce and polluting power sources providing clean
and green energy without emissions of hazardous
particles or greenhouse gases. Therefore no special
environmental risks are involved with Greentech’s
activities. In 2012, Greentech’s installed gross capacity
provided a clean energy production of 444.2 GWh:
- Equivalent to the power consumption of 148,074
families in 1 year
- Saving 111,056 tons of oil
- Avoiding the emission of 235,883 tons of CO2.

In line with Greentech’s business goal of enlarging the
operational portfolio significantly, Greentech strives to
generate and deliver a constantly increasing clean energy
production in order to contribute to the protection of
the environment and to a sustainable growth.
In its considerations relating to CSR initiatives,
Greentech still seeks inspiration in the UN Global
Compact initiative for corporate social responsibility.
Greentech will continue to do so in the future but does
not expect to formally join the initiative as the formal
requirements for membership are not compatible with
the present size of the Company’s organisation.
However, the UN principles on human rights, labour
rights, environment and anticorruption form the
framework on which Greentech’s continued CSR efforts
are based.
Thus, in future, Greentech will continuously voluntarily
endeavour to expand its CSR efforts by integrating
environmental and social aspects in its planning and
decision-making processes. These initiatives will be based
on the CSR areas that are the most relevant areas with
respect to Greentech’s core business and commercial
goals as this is the best way in which Greentech can
contribute through relevant initiatives to the benefit of
the Company and its stakeholders.

• Greentech is committed to assessing the impact of the
Company’s activities. Greentech’s projects are subject
to environmental permits and at all project stages
Greentech is governed by comprehensive
environmental legislation and rules which, through
mandatory surveys and analyses, serve to safeguard the
surroundings of the projects, i.e. flora and fauna, local
residents and the landscape.
• To the extent possible, Greentech limits the
environmental impact of its business activities.
Greentech focuses on replanting of e.g. trees and
shrubs in corresponding areas where they are removed
to complete the Company’s activities.
• As Greentech’s activities are often carried out in areas
that have a high rate of unemployment, Greentech
also contributes to ensuring growth in the local
community through employment of local workers,
contractors and suppliers.

35

