Management’s review

Account of corporate social responsibility - CSR
A responsible player in society
Greentech is very much aware of its role as a player in
society in a local, national and an international context.
This means that the Company will make targeted efforts
to ensure that its core business area and activities are
developed in a financially, environmentally and socially
responsible manner by both complying with statutory
requirements and taking voluntary CSR initiatives in the
countries and communities in which Greentech operates.
• Greentech provides clean and green energy. Energy
without emissions of hazardous particles or greenhouse
gases. Therefore no special environmental risks are
involved with Greentech’s activities. In 2011
Greentech’s installed gross capacity provided a clean
energy production of 358.1 GWh:
o Equivalent to the power consumption of 102,500
families in 1 year
o Saving 31,000 tons of oil
o Avoiding the emission of 675,000 tons of CO2.
• Greentech is committed to assess the impact of the
Company’s activities. Greentech’s projects are subject to
environmental permits, and at all project stages
Greentech is governed by comprehensive
environmental legislation and rules which, through
mandatory surveys and analyses, serve to safeguard the
surroundings of the projects, ie flora and fauna, local
residents and the landscape.

Greentech does still not yet systematically work with
voluntarily integrating corporate social responsibility as
part of its strategy and activities and, therefore, has not
yet formulated any policies in this area.
In its considerations relating to CSR initiatives, Greentech
has so far sought inspiration in the UN Global Compact
initiative for corporate social responsibility. Greentech
will continue to do so in the future but does not expect to
formally join the initiative as the formal requirements for
membership are not compatible with the present size of
the Company’s organisation. However, the UN principles
on human rights, labour rights, the environment and
anticorruption will form the framework on which
Greentech’s continued CSR efforts are based.
Thus, in future Greentech will voluntarily endeavour to
expand its CSR efforts by integrating environmental and
social aspects in its planning and decision-making
processes. These initiatives will be based on the CSR
areas that are the most relevant areas with respect to
Greentech’s business goals as this is the best way in
which Greentech can contribute through relevant
initiatives to the benefit of the Company and its
stakeholders.

• To the extent possible Greentech tries to limit the
environmental impact of its business activities. Greentech
focuses on replanting of e.g. trees and shrubs in
corresponding areas if planting needs to be removed to
complete the Company’s construction activities.
• As Greentech’s construction activities are often carried
out in areas that have a high rate of unemployment,
Greentech also contributes to ensuring growth in the
local community through employment of local workers,
contractors and suppliers.

37

