Business principles

ENVIRONMENT
H+H does not at present prepare any separate environmentalreports, as the environmental impact of its production is limited.However, H+H is committed to actively tackling the environmentalissues related to its operations, including ways of avoiding,containing or remedying any adverse environmental impacts.For example, H+H always takes into account environmental considerationssuch as reducing the consumption of raw materialsand energy when building new factories or upgrading existingfactories. Looking forward, H+H will regularly seek to improveresource and environmental awareness amongst its employees,partly by trying to ensure that decision-makers in H+H alwaystake into account any environmental consequences relatingto the use and disposal of a given product before deciding toprocure that product.Aircrete is based on water, sand or pulverised fuel ash, limeand cement. The production of aircrete thus does not includeany scarce natural resources. To save water resources, some ofH+H’s existing factories collect rainwater for use in production,and production water is reused to some extent.The machinery used for manufacturing aircrete is electricallypowered, and gas is used for raising steam for autoclaving theaircrete. H+H continuously strives to minimise its electricity andgas consumption in order to reduce its energy consumption andconsequently its production costs and CO2 emissions, and H+Hregularly explores the possibilities for using renewable, moresustainable energy sources.On demolition of buildings incorporating aircrete, the aircrete canbe reused in crushed form for applications such as road fill, insulationmaterial and material for lightweight aggregate concrete.Lastly, as part of its product development, H+H continuouslyseeks to enhance the insulating properties of its aircrete productsto ensure that aircrete remains one of the most energy-efficientmaterials for wall construction.

24

MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW

Global Reports LLC

