Corporate responsibility
Corporate responsibility (CR)
H+H develops, manufactures and sells aircrete products for

H+H has established a CR Committee consisting of several of
the Group’s senior executives and the CEO. H+H’s corporate

construction projects in Western and Eastern Europe and is

responsibility strategy will focus on three core areas: environ-

responsible for doing this in a sustainable manner – from a busi-

ment, health and safety and business ethics.

ness, work and environmental point of view. This responsibility is
an integral part of H+H’s activities.

■

In the environmental area, H+H will primarily focus on
reducing material waste, wastewater and energy and water

CR today

consumption in the production of aircrete, and also on

Aircrete is an extremely eco-friendly building material, not only

sustainability in production, transportation and reuse of H+H’s

because of its excellent thermal insulating properties but also
because it is soft on the environment during the production

products. astly, in its work on the development of aircrete
products, H+H will focus particularly on improving the positive

process. Most of the materials used in the production of aircrete,

environmental properties of aircrete still further, such as its

such as lime and sand, are readily available, non-scarce natural

excellent thermal insulating properties and long life, which is

resources, and pulverised fuel ash is used as raw material in

due in part to aircrete’s resistance to rot, fungal attack and

some countries. Pulverised fuel ash is a residual product from

fire;

power generation at coal-fired power stations. At the end of their
life cycle, aircrete products can be reused, for example as road

■

base.

In the health and safety area, H+H will address employee
conditions such as safety at the workplace, job satisfaction
and opportunities for personal and professional development,

The H+H Group has a long tradition of ensuring sustainability
in its operations and has been engaged in CR for a number of
years, although without having a formal CR policy. H+H has been

human rights and workers’ rights and non-discrimination;

practising CR in each country based on local legislation, trends

In the business ethics area, besides focusing on the generally
accepted corporate governance principles, H+H will focus on

and traditions.

areas such as corruption and bribery as well as the relation-

CR tomorrow

ship with stakeholder groups such as customers, suppliers,
shareholders, local communities at H+H’s factories and

H+H’s plans to prepare and implement a general CR policy that

society in general.

■

can contribute positively to the Group’s development while at the
same time respecting the interests of H+H’s stakeholder groups

H+H will provide regular updates about its CR activities on

and surroundings.

www.HplusH.com.

H+H is working actively on the development of a common platform for its CR efforts, based on a commercially driven approach.
Such an approach will enable H+H to identify not only areas in
which H+H can reduce risks and costs, but also new business
opportunities, and achieving social gains.

21

