Report on corporate social responsibility

SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT AND VALUES
Sustainability is a central element in Harboe’s strategy for the group’s continued
growth and development. Eﬀective utilisation of resources and positive relations with the company’s stakeholders are essential to Harboe’s future value
creation. Harboe’s corporate social responsibility activities are rooted in a policy
based on a commercial prioritisation of value creation and risk mitigation. The
policy has been approved by the company’s Board of Directors and can be
found on the group’s website.
The group has decided to focus on the following four focus areas within business-driven corporate social responsibility: climate and environment, employees and occupational health and safety, quality and health as well as community relations.
As a member of the Danish Brewers’ Association, Harboe supports the industry’s responsibility initiatives and participates in the ongoing reporting within
the industry’s focus areas.

CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT
Harboe’s objective is to minimise the resources used in the production process
as much as possible relative to the overall production volume, thereby reducing
the environmental impact of its activities.
The Group’s three breweries have a combined total capacity of 10 million.
hectoliters. In 2014/2015, a total produced 5.93 million. hectoliters of beer,
soft drinks and malt wort products. This is unchanged from last year.
Harboe’s production facilities are optimised at regular intervals to ensure an
up-to-date, eﬃcient and flexible production process. All investments in new
production technology, optimisation of existing production facilities and all
product and packaging development take into account resource use and general environmental impact.
In 2014/2015, DKK 56.2 million was invested in the production facilities, primarily focused on ongoing improvement and continued eﬃciency improvements in production. As expected, last year’s investments in new cooling towers and compressors significantly reduced energy costs in the current year, and
further reductions can be expected to be achieved in the coming financial year.
The group’s ERP system for planning and control of production processes
across all the group’s production units is being further developed and implemented. The system is expected to be fully implemented in the course of the
coming financial year and will result in a number of process optimisations as
well as additional energy savings and financial savings.
In the past five years, Harboe has invested DKK 382 million in the expansion
and strengthening of the brewery sector’s production facilities. The investments have proved decisive in the competition for large-volume contracts in
the main markets in Northern Europe. At the same time, the capacity of our
modern and eﬃcient production facilities forms a solid basis for realising the
group’s strategy and further value creation within the strategic development
areas and the continued geographical expansion of the activities.

“As expected, last year’s investments in new cooling towers and
compressors significantly reduced energy costs in the current year,
and further reductions are expected in the coming financial year”

Harboe prepares green accounts for its production unit in Skælskør containing
information about raw material, water and energy consumption as well as
emissions, waste water discharge and waste disposal. Furthermore, the group’s
subsidiary Darguner Brauerei GmbH in Germany has obtained energy certification.
In the coming year, Harboe will continue to assess the need for further investments in eﬃcient utilisation of resources and capacity. Investments planned in
2015/2016 are targeted mainly at ongoing improvement, however. Further
major investment decisions, if any, will be made on the basis of the group’s
strategy and requirements laid down for return and value creation.

EMPLOYEES AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
Harboe’s management values and HR strategy are based on the group’s focus
on realising value-adding business results as well as on preserving the ambition
of running an attractive business that fosters pride and a high degree of employee satisfaction.
As part of this strategy, Harboe focuses on having the necessary competencies
and resources at all times, to enable the group to eﬃciently carry on its activities while at the same time seizing new opportunities for growth and value
creation.
It is therefore vital that Harboe is able to recruit motivated managers and employees with the right qualifications for all parts of the group. Harboe’s seeks to
oﬀer competitive pay and employment conditions in accordance with applicable collective agreements, good practice and relevant international standards.
DIVERSITY AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT
The recruitment of new employees is mainly based on the candidates’ professional and personal qualifications matching the job description. But Harboe is
also committed to ensuring that the group’s organisation and management
reflect a wish for diversity, and Harboe aims to create equal conditions and opportunities for supplementary training and career development for all employee groups, regardless of gender, nationality, religion or age.

“Focus is on strengthening and updating competencies at all levels
in the group to place it in the strongest possible position to execute
its international growth strategy”



HARBOE’S DIVERSITY POLICY
Harboe aims to promote diversity through a number of focus
areas in the group’s recruitment processes and management
practice:
- When recruiting for ordinary positions as well as management
positions in the group, everyone with the right competencies
and ambitions is encouraged to apply – regardless of gender,
nationality, religion or age.
- It is a priority in the recruitment process that the wish for
diversity is taken into account once candidates with the right
professional competencies and personal qualifications have
been identified.
- Harboe’s staﬀ and management policy aims to create the
framework for a proper work-life balance.
- Harboe conducts annual performance interviews with
managers and employees in the organisation, with responsibility
and personal career development as integrated elements.
- Harboe follows up on employee satisfaction in the organisation
at appropriate intervals, including on the satisfaction with the
possibilities for personal, professional and career development.

So when recruiting for ordinary positions as well as management positions in
the group, everyone with the right competencies and ambitions is encouraged
to apply. However, the majority of Harboe’s employees are employed in production, which is traditionally predominated by men. This aﬀects the recruitment base and is also reflected in the overall gender distribution in the comQBOZXJUINFOBOEXPNFOJOUIFmOBODJBMZFBS*OTUFQXJUIUIF
continued internationalisation of the company and the strengthening of the
development, sales and marketing functions, Harboe has focused on further
increasing diversity, and this aim was reflected during the financial year with
the employment of more women among international specialists and managers. Harboe does not have a formal policy on the underrepresented gender at
other management levels, but it aims to ensure that the continued development of the organisation contributes to the further strengthening of diversity
in general across the organisation in Harboes Bryggeri.
TARGET FOR WOMEN ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
With a view to ensuring a more equal distribution of men and women on Harboe’s supreme governing body, Harboe’s Board of Directors has fixed a target
for one-third of the members of the Board of Directors to be women. This target must be realised in connection with the company’s annual general meeting
in 2017 at the latest. On the current Board of Directors, the board members
elected by the general meeting still consist of five men and one woman. One
new female board member was appointed to the Board of Directors during the
period, but as she replaced a retiring female member, the proportion is unchanged. In the period up to 2017, the Board of Directors will decide how best
to meet the target for the proportion of women.

ORGANISATION FOR STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
Focus is on strengthening and updating competencies at all levels in the
group to place it in the strongest possible position to execute its international growth strategy. This includes the continued consolidation of the international sales organisation, which was upgraded with new strong competencies targeted at the continued development of growth markets in Asia
and Africa, among others. The malt extract activities were also further
strengthened with specialists capable of supporting sales activities with competent advice to customers.
During the financial year, Harboe continued its strategic management development programme, which will form the basis for strengthened competencies
and a shared frame of reference for the operational management of the group.
The programme also ensures the eﬀective anchoring of the strategy processes
among key managers in the group, for example through an annual strategy
seminar for the entire international corporate management team.
The operational part of the group also implemented a number of training activities during the year. The team leader training programme, which Harboe set
up in Denmark a few years back with a view to ensuring eﬀective and close
follow-up on quality and eﬃciency in the individual production processes, was
continued in the group’s German production unit. The programme yields
positive results in the form of continuous optimisation and eﬃciency improvements in operations. At the same time, feedback indicates that the increased
level of responsibility is a strong motivational factor for both the individual
team leaders and the employees in the organisation, who thus get more influence on operational decisions.
JOB SATISFACTION AND EXCELLENT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND
SAFETY
Harboe supports the health, well-being and general human rights of its
employees, including through a healthy and balanced oﬀering in the
group’s canteens. In addition, the group oﬀers personal advice and a number of activities in connection with the health-promoting initiatives, including oﬀers of personal health checks and subsequent advice on lifestyle
changes.
Harboe is dedicated to ensuring a safe working environment that seeks to
prevent absence due to illness and injury. Harboe is constantly investing in
training and development activities to ensure that its employees are optimally geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and eﬃcient manner. Further training programmes for employees were also completed this year in all
the group’s units.
The group’s production unit in Skælskør has got occupational health and
safety certification in accordance with OHSAS 18000:2008, and the preparations for a similar certification of the group’s German production unit are
under way. Several processes were optimised in connection with these preparations, and in future the certification will enable more structured, ongoing
follow-up in this area. The launch of preliminary preparations for a similar
occupational health and safety certification of the brewery in Estonia will be
planned in the coming year.

 "OOVBMSFQPSUt

SATISFACTION AND RETENTION OF EMPLOYEES
As part of the competency development of each employee, Harboe conducts
performance interviews which follow up on goals and results and at which
performance plans are defined for the coming year based on the group strategy and the individual employee’s professional competencies and ambitions.
The performance interviews also follow up on the employee’s satisfaction with
the general conditions and the opportunities for personal development. The
qualitative feedback is predominantly positive, and in the past financial year,
this also resulted in a very low level of absence due to illness, a low staﬀ turnover rate and continued high seniority of both production staﬀ and specialists.
This contributes to ensuring continuity and to retaining the valuable knowledge accumulated in the company, and resources have also been allocated to
this focus area in the coming year.

Harboe will continue to focus on quality and the health-related aspects of
the product development in the coming year as well. In this context, the implementation of the ERP system is expected to contribute to optimised control of the quality standards. At the same time, the further development activities within malt extract and the development of own drinks products will
continue to focus on meeting the demand for more natural and nutritious
products.

EXTERNAL RELATIONS
It is an integral part of Harboe’s management philosophy and fundamental
values that the company has a good and constructive relationship with its
stakeholders, based on professionalism, open dialogue and mutual respect.
The group’s business-ethical policies regulate the relations with its business
partners.

QUALITY AND HEALTH
As an international drinks manufacturer and supplier to food companies
worldwide, product quality and safety are paramount. Harboe will meet the
highest food safety standards by using raw materials that ensure a high and
uniform quality throughout the entire value chain – from raw material to the
finished product. Harboe’s requirements for the quality of the raw materials
purchased from suppliers follow this ambition and are evaluated systematically.
Investments in quality improvements and optimisation of production facilities are made to ensure that Harboe meets new requirements and expectations for quality and hygiene at all times. All the group’s production units are
certified in accordance with international quality standards, including ISO
22000, HACCP, International Food Standard (IFS) and BRC Global Standards.
Harboe also produces halal-certified products, kosher-certified products and
organic-certified drinks. Systematic follow-up as well as internal and impartial external control are performed as part of the maintenance of the certifications.
The market is seeing a growing consumer demand for healthier products.
Harboe continues to focus intensively on innovation in order to meet this
demand, and the product development within ingredients based on malt
extract supports this strategy. In the financial year, further development took
place on new variants of malt-based ingredients which can replace flavourings and colourings in both drinks and food products.
Finally, Harboe supports the industry’s standards for responsible marketing
of alcohol and, in the financial year, participated in information activities carried out via the Danish Brewers’ Association.

“All the group’s production units are certified in accordance with
international quality standards, including ISO 22000, HACCP, International Food Standard (IFS) and BRC Global Standards. Harboe
also produces halal-certified products, kosher-certified products
and organic-certified drinks”

 "OOVBMSFQPSUt

“The group has developed a number of standard requirements
which are incorporated into the supplier agreements. The requirements concern quality and the reliability of deliveries, but also corporate social responsibility, including environmental issues and human rights”

Harboe’s relations with its suppliers and other partners are also based on
agreements and contracts being drafted in accordance with international
standards. The group has developed a number of standard requirements
which are incorporated into the supplier agreements. The requirements concern quality and the reliability of deliveries, but also corporate social responsibility, including environmental issues and human rights. In the past year,
Harboe has worked to optimise contract formats and conditions and further
strengthen the procedures applied when concluding agreements. This applies particularly in the new markets where social conditions, regulation and
business practice may deviate from EU standards, and the group will also focus intensely on safeguarding the formal and ethical aspects of its business
activities in future.

ACTIVE IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITY
Harboe is strongly rooted in the local community, and being aware of the
responsibility that naturally comes from being an integral part of the communities in which the company operates is a key element of the group’s values. This year, Harboe thus again supported many relevant local sports activities, cultural events and charities. The activities have a positive impact on
the group’s relations with the outside world, just as they contribute to
strengthening company culture and a sense of togetherness.
In the coming year, Harboe will continue its eﬀorts to cultivate and expand its
relations with the outside world. Special focus will remain on underpinning
the framework for the collaboration with suppliers and other business partners. In addition, Harboe will prioritise its active presence in the communities
in which the group operates, through planned sponsorship activities and by
participating in relevant social and local contexts.

31 "OOVBMSFQPSUt

