EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION ANDOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETYAs part of the competency development of each employee, Harboeconducts annual performance interviews which follow up on goals andresults, and performance plans are defined for the coming year. The performanceinterviews also provide an opportunity to follow up on employeesatisfaction, which is largely supported by a strong corporate culture. Inthis connection, Harboe is pleased that its staff turnover is low and thatseniority for both production workers and specialists is at a level whichensures continuity and maintains the valuable knowledge gathered in thecompany. At the same time it is extremely satisfactory that the number ofemployees with very few or no days off sick is extremely high.At the beginning of 2010, a formal review and assessment of the psychologicalworking environment at Harboe’s production unit in Skælskør was carriedout. The review did not give rise to any qualifications, and in the past year,preparations have started with a view to having the company certified inaccordance with international occupational health and safety standards.The work will continue in the coming financial year under the guidanceof external consultants. However, it should be noted that the number ofaccidents at work is already extremely low.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYIt is a central element in Harboe’s strategy that the group’s continuedgrowth and development should be sustainable. The efficient utilisationof resources is of decisive importance to the group’s financial results and

Annual report 2009/2010

22010138_Harboe_Årsrapport_2010.indd 22

28/07/10 18.32

continued value creation. At the same time, being conscious of its responsibilities as an integrated part of society is a key element in Harboe’s values.
As a member of the Danish Brewers’ Association (Bryggeriforeningen),
Harboe participates in the continuous reporting within the industry’s
focus areas and in the ongoing development of industry standards for
corporate social responsibility.
Harboe aims to continuously optimise results within the group’s focus
areas, and Harboe is working to implement a reporting system designed
to ensure more systematic monitoring and target follow-up on selected
indicators across the group’s units. Harboe will thus start reporting within
this area in connection with the group’s interim report for the first half
of 2010/11 at the latest.
ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCES
Sustainable development plays a central role in Harboe’s development
activities, and all investments in new production technology, optimisations
of existing production facilities and all product and packaging development
take account of the resources involved and the general impact of activities
on the environment. Moreover, Harboe is constantly investing in training
and development activities to ensure that the group’s employees are optimally
geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and eﬃcient manner.
It is Harboe’s ambition to ensure the continued reduction in resources
consumed and in environmental impact relative to the total production
volume. At the same time, the aim is for the number of accidents at work
and absence due to illness to be maintained at the current very low level.
For a number of years, Harboe has prepared green accounts for the group’s
factory in Skælskør. As part of this project, Harboe has, in the course of the
year, continued its preparations aimed at ensuring that the group’s units
can – in addition to the existing quality and environmental certifications
– be certified in accordance with international occupational health and
safety standards.
Harboe is pleased to see that continuous investments in increased eﬃciency
and optimisation of the group’s production facilities are having a positive
eﬀect on both resource consumption and emissions relative to the concurrent
development in production volume.
In Skælskør, Harboe’s focus on energy utilisation has resulted in continuous
optimisations. The establishment of the new evaporation plant for the
production of malt extract is an example of how eﬃciency and
environmental optimisation can be equal factors in the group’s investment
strategy. The eﬃcient use of energy has led to an energy subsidy from
DONG Energy of DKK 2.0 million in the past financial year.
In the course of the year, Harboe also invested in a CO2 capture system
as well as the expansion and optimisation of the brewery’s waste-water

treatment plant, which is expected to be completed in summer 2010.
In addition to an optimisation of waste-water quality, the expansion also
ensures a marked increase in capacity which will make it possible to accommodate the expected growth in production volume in the coming years.
The group’s German production unit has also implemented capacity
increases, including the installation of a new bottle column, which also
ensures a marked increase in energy eﬃciency.
All in all, Harboe invested approx. DKK 166 million in 2009/10 in the
further development and optimisation of the group’s production facilities.
Investment grants received for the financial year totalled DKK 40.0 million.
Harboe will also in future analyse the scope for optimising the group’s use
and utilisation of resources throughout the production-related value
chain. Priority will also be given to these strategic activities in the group’s
investment plans for the coming year. As part of this work, a number of
energy ambassadors have been appointed, initially at the group’s production
unit in Skælskør. The ambassadors are charged with assessing how environmental concerns can be incorporated into the ongoing operations and
maintenance, while at the same time collecting and driving ideas in
the organisation with a view to further optimising processes and energy
consumption.
RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS
Harboe’s strategic focus on sustainability is also reflected in its fundamental
business ethics and the principles according to which Harboe operates.
Harboe believes that it is important for the group’s staﬀ and employment
policy to reflect this through terms of employment which are in compliance
with collective agreements and which mirror good practice and international
standards. Furthermore, the company is committed to the health and
safety of its employees by oﬀering training and staﬀ benefits, including
attractive canteen arrangements etc.
In relationships with suppliers and other collaboration partners, Harboe
attaches importance to agreements and contracts being prepared in
accordance with international standards and that the ongoing dialogue
is based on mutual professionalism, openness and respect. Harboe has
formulated a number of standard requirements which form part of
negotiations and agreements with subsuppliers.
Harboe also seeks to assume an active role in the communities in which the
group operates, and Harboe regularly participates in activities benefiting
economic and social growth, locally as well as internationally. In the past year,
Harboe has thus been actively involved in, for example, research projects and
a number of diﬀerent sponsorships. In the past year, the group’s ‘Icebeer
Climate Fund’, the purpose of which is to fund research and initiatives for the
benefit of the climate, supported a climate project for children in Greenland
with a view to attracting more attention to global warming.

Annual report 2009/2010

22010138_Harboe_Årsrapport_2010.indd 23



28/07/10 18.32

