MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW

REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
VALUE CHAIN OPTIMISATION
Sustainability is a central element in Harboe’s strategy for the group’s continued growth and development. Eﬀective utilisation of resources and positive
relations with the company’s stakeholders are essential to Harboe’s future
value creation. Harboe’s corporate social responsibility activities are rooted in
a CSR policy based on a commercial prioritisation of value creation and risk
mitigation. The policy has been approved by the company’s Board of Directors and can be found on the group’s website at http://files.shareholder.com/
d ownl o ads/A MDA -EBD F V/3076608782x0x766455/59b09d329624-473c-844d-6c7dc81a4cbb/CSR_-_2014_-_UK.pdf
The group has decided to focus on the following four focus areas within business-driven corporate social responsibility: climate and environment, employees and occupational health and safety, quality and health and community relations.
As a member of the Danish Brewers’ Association, Harboe supports the industry’s responsibility initiatives and participates in the ongoing reporting within
the industry’s focus areas.

CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT
Harboe’s objective is to minimise the resources used in the production process as much as possible relative to the overall production volume, thereby
reducing the environmental impact of its activities.

The subsidiary Darguner Brauerei GmbH has also obtained energy certification.
Investments were made in the past financial year to maintain and optimise
the group’s production facilities. New cooling towers and compressors,
among other things, were installed at the production unit in Skælskør, which
are expected to result in significant annual reductions in energy consumption. The group’s ERP system is being developed further and will form the
basis for more eﬀective planning and control of production processes across
all the group’s production units. The further development of the ERP system
is expected to be fully implemented in the course of the coming financial
year and will result in a number of process optimisations as well as both energy savings and financial savings.
Concurrently with the strengthening of the IT platform, a dedicated, international management committee made further eﬀorts to strengthen the coordination of the group’s purchasing, planning, production and logistics as well
as the link with the sales organisation, in order to ensure better and more efficient utilisation of resources, speed up the entire supply chain and increase
its eﬃciency. The aim is to create both operational synergies and improved
customer service, and Harboe is expecting to see positive results due to these
eﬀorts, for example in connection with the high season in the coming financial year.

EMPLOYEES AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
Harboe’s production facilities are optimised at regular intervals to ensure an
up-to-date, eﬃcient and flexible production process. All investments in new
production technology, optimisation of existing production facilities and all
product and packaging development take into account resource use and
general environmental impact.
Harboe prepares green accounts for its production unit in Skælskør containing information about raw material, water and energy consumption as well as
emissions, waste water discharge and waste disposal.

32

Harboe wants to be an attractive workplace that is able to attract, retain and
develop the talents necessary to ensure the group’s continued development.
Harboe’s corporate culture is based on responsibility, cooperation, quality
and results. Harboe’s employees are oﬀered competitive pay and employment conditions in accordance with applicable collective agreements, good
practice and relevant international standards. Furthermore, the employees
are oﬀered regular training to ensure the continued upgrading of skills and
qualifications.

Annual report 2013/14

As part of Harboe’s focus on human rights, the group also supports the
health and well-being of its employees, among other things through a
healthy and balanced oﬀering in the group’s canteen. In addition, the group
oﬀers personal advice and a number of activities in connection with the
health-promoting initiatives, including oﬀers of personal health checks and
subsequent advice on lifestyle changes.
Harboe is dedicated to ensuring a safe working environment that seeks to
prevent absence due to illness and injury. Harboe is constantly investing in
training and development activities to ensure that its employees are optimally geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and eﬃcient manner. Further training programmes for employees were also completed this year in all
the group’s units.
The group’s production unit in Skælskør has got occupational health and
safety certification, and the preparations for a similar certification of the
group’s German production unit are under way. Several processes were optimised in connection with these preparations, and in future the certification
will enable more structured, ongoing follow-up in this area. The launch of
preliminary preparations for a similar occupational health and safety certification of the brewery in Estonia will be planned in the coming year.

QUALITY AND HEALTH
As an international drinks manufacturer and supplier to food companies
worldwide, product quality and safety are paramount. Harboe will meet the
highest food safety standards by using raw materials that ensure a high and
uniform quality throughout the entire value chain – from raw material to the
finished product. Harboe’s requirements for the quality of the raw materials
purchased from suppliers follow this ambition and are evaluated systematically.
Investments in quality improvements and optimisation of production facilities are made to ensure that Harboe meets new requirements and expectations for quality and hygiene at all times. All the group’s production units are
certified in accordance with international quality standards, including ISO
22000, BRC Global Standards and IFS FOOD. Harboe also produces halalcertified products, kosher-certified products and organic drinks. Systematic
follow-up and control are performed as part of the maintenance of the certifications.
The market is seeing a growing consumer demand for healthier products.
Harboe continues to focus intensively on innovation in order to meet this
demand, and the product development within ingredients based on malt
extract supports this strategy. In the financial year, further development took
place on new variants of malt-based ingredients which can replace flavourings and colourings in both drinks and food products.
Finally, Harboe supports the industry’s standards for responsible marketing
of alcohol and, in the financial year, participated in relevant information activities carried out via the Danish Brewers’ Association.

“Several processes were optimised in connection with the preparations for obtaining occupational health and safety certification for
Harboe’s German production unit, and in future the certification
will enable more structured, ongoing follow-up in this area”

Harboe will continue to focus on quality and the health-related aspects of
the product development in the coming year as well. In this context, the implementation of the ERP system is expected to contribute to optimised control of the quality standards. At the same time, the further development activities within malt extract and the development of own drinks products will
continue to focus on meeting the demand for more natural and nutritious
products.

EXTERNAL RELATIONS
It is an integral part of Harboe’s management philosophy and fundamental
values that the company has a good and constructive relationship with its
stakeholders, based on professionalism, open dialogue and mutual respect.
The group’s business-ethical policies regulate the relations with its business
partners.
Harboe’s relations with its suppliers and other partners are also based on
agreements and contracts being drafted in accordance with international
standards. The group has developed a number of standard requirements
which are incorporated into the supplier agreements. The requirements concern quality and the reliability of deliveries, but also corporate social responsibility, including environmental issues and human rights. In the past year,
Harboe has worked to optimise contract formats and further strengthen the
procedures applied when concluding agreements, not least in the new markets where social conditions, regulation and business practice may deviate
from EU standards.
Harboe is strongly rooted in the local community, and being aware of the
responsibility that naturally comes from being an integral part of the communities in which the company operates is a key element of the group’s values. This year, Harboe thus again supported many relevant local sports activities, cultural events and charities. The activities have a positive impact on
the group’s relations with the outside world, just as they contribute to
strengthening company culture and a sense of togetherness.
In the coming year, Harboe will continue its eﬀorts to consolidate and expand its relations with the outside world. Special focus will remain on underpinning the framework for the collaboration with suppliers and other business partners. In addition, Harboe will prioritise its active presence in the
communities in which the group operates, through planned sponsorship
activities and by participating in relevant social and local contexts.

Annual report 2013/14

33

