CSR - CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Business-driven corporate social responsibility
“Responsibility is a core value in Harboe, and responsible management means that all decisions must be
weighed against risks and consequences. This applies
both internally and in relation to the world in which
we operate”
Sustainability is a central element in Harboe’s strategy for the group’s
continued growth and development. Eﬀective utilisation of resources and
positive relations with the company’s stakeholders are essential to Harboe’s
future value creation. Harboe’s work on responsibility is rooted in a policy
based on a commercial prioritisation based on value optimisation and risk
mitigation. The policy has been approved by the company’s Board of
Directors and can be found on the group’s website at http://files.shareholder.
com/downloads/AMDA-EBDFV/1941228922x0x584948/9f89ea52-5d9b-46929a5e-bd92891306c6/CSR_-_2012_UK.pdf
The group has decided to focus on the following four focus areas within
corporate social responsibility: climate and environment, employees and
occupational health and safety, quality and health and community
relations.
As a member of the Danish Brewers’ Association, Harboe supports the
industry’s responsibility initiatives and participates in the ongoing reporting
within the industry’s focus areas.
CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT
Harboe’s objective is to minimise the resources used in the production
process as much as possible relative to the overall production volume,
thereby reducing the environmental impact of its activities.
Harboe’s production facilities are optimised at regular intervals to ensure

Annual report 2011/12

23

MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW
an up-to-date, eﬃcient and flexible production process. All investments in
new production technology, optimisation of existing production facilities
and all product and packaging development take into account resource
use and general environmental impact.
All the group’s units are certified according to international quality and
environmental standards. Harboe prepares green accounts for its production
unit in Skælskør containing information about raw material, water and
energy consumption as well as emissions, waste water discharge and waste
disposal.
Investments were also made in the past financial year to maintain and
optimise the group’s production facilities, The experience gathered from
the past years’ investments in new evaporation plants and a CO2 capture
system is also positive. CO2 is now systematically captured and reused in
Denmark and Germany, and the energy savings can pay for the investment
in the plants in just two years.
Optimisation eﬀorts also continued in the logistics area, and last year’s
changes in the warehouse facilities’ infrastructure led to permanently
improved eﬃciency and significant reductions in internal warehouse
transport.
In 2011/12, the implementation of the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
system at the group’s production units in Denmark and Germany was
initiated as planned. In the coming financial year, the system will be fully
implemented with the result that the entire group’s production may be
managed and coordinated on the same IT platform.
The system will be the starting point for Harboe’s eﬀorts to control and
monitor quality standards, output rates, energy consumption etc. across
group units and will form the basis for forward-looking, specific objectives
and reporting with a view to further optimisation of production.
EMPLOYEES AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
Harboe wants to be an attractive workplace that is able to attract, retain
and develop the talents necessary to ensure the group’s continued
development.
Harboe’s corporate culture is based on responsibility, cooperation, quality and
results. Harboe’s employees are oﬀered competitive pay and employment
conditions in accordance with applicable collective agreements, good practice
and relevant international standards. Furthermore, the employees are oﬀered
regular training to ensure the continued upgrading of skills and qualifications.
The health and well-being of its employees is important to Harboe. In
addition to an attractive canteen option, the group oﬀers its employees
personal advice and activities relating to weight loss, smoking cessation etc.
Harboe is dedicated to ensuring a safe working environment that seeks to
prevent absence due to illness and injury. Harboe is constantly investing in

training and development activities to ensure that its employees are
optimally geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and eﬃcient manner.
Further training programmes for employees were also completed this year.
In accordance with the strategy, the group’s production unit in Skælskør
received occupational health and safety certification in the financial year.
Several processes were optimised in connection with the certification, and
in future the certification will enable a more structured, ongoing follow-up
in this area. Preparations for a similar certification of the group’s other two
production units in Germany and Estonia have started, and this is expected
to be completed in the course of 2013.
QUALITY AND HEALTH
As an international drinks manufacturer and supplier to food companies
worldwide, product quality and safety are paramount. Harboe will meet
the highest food safety standards by using raw materials that ensure a high
and uniform quality throughout the entire value chain – from raw material
to the finished product.
Harboe’s requirements for the quality of the raw materials purchased from
suppliers follow this ambition and are evaluated systematically.
Investments in quality improvements and optimisation of production
facilities are made to ensure that Harboe meets new requirements and
expectations for quality and hygiene at all times. All the group’s production
units are certified in accordance with international quality standards, and
systematic follow-up and control are carried out.
The market is seeing a growing consumer demand for healthier products.
Harboe continues to focus intensively on innovation in order to meet this
demand, and product development within malt extract is one of the eﬀorts
that support this strategy.
Finally, Harboe supports the industry’s standards for responsible marketing
of alcohol and the information activities carried out under the auspices of
the Danish Brewers’ Association.
Harboe will continue to focus on quality and health in the coming year as
well. In this context, the implementation of the ERP system is expected to
contribute to optimised control of the quality standards. At the same time,
the further development activities within malt extract and the development
of own drinks products will focus on meeting the demand for more natural
and nutritious products.
EXTERNAL RELATIONS
It is an integral part of Harboe’s management philosophy and fundamental
values that the company has a good and constructive relationship with its
stakeholders, based on professionalism, open dialogue and mutual respect.
The group’s business-ethical policies regulate the relations with its business
partners.

Annual report 2011/12

25

MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW
Harboe’s relations with its suppliers and other partners are also based on
agreements and contracts being drafted in accordance with international
standards, and the group has developed a number of standard requirements
regarding quality, the reliability of deliveries and CSR which are incorporated
into the supplier agreements.
Harboe is strongly rooted in the local community, and being aware of the
responsibility that naturally comes from being an integral part of the
communities in which the company operates is a key element of the group’s
values. This year, Harboe thus again supported many relevant local sports
activities, cultural events and charities, and these activities have a positive
impact on the group’s relations with the surrounding world, just as they
contribute to strengthening the culture and cohesion internally in the
company.
In the coming year, Harboe will work on further strengthening and
expanding the professional and mutually value creating collaboration with
suppliers and other partners. The process will focus particularly on the
continued internationalisation of the business and provision of the formal
framework for the relations and business activities established in new
markets where social conditions, regulation and business practice deviate
from EU standards.

Annual report 2011/12

27

