Management’s review

Environmental
information
Sustainable development
It is a central element in Harboe’s strategy that the group’s continued growth and development should be sustainable. The
efficient utilisation of resources is of decisive importance to the
group’s financial results and continued creation of value. At the
same time, being conscious of the company’s responsibilities as
an integrated part of society is a key element in Harboe’s values.
Sustainable development therefore plays a central role in Harboe’s
development activities, and all investments in new production
technology, optimisations of existing production facilities and all
product and packaging development take account of the resources
involved and the general impact of activities on the environment.
Moreover, Harboe is constantly investing in training and development activities to ensure that the group’s employees are optimally
geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
It is generally Harboe’s ambition to ensure the continued reduction in resources consumed and in environmental impact relative
to total production volume. At the same time, the aim is for the
number of accidents at work and absence due to illness to be maintained at the current very low level.
Harboe has for a number of years prepared green accounts for the
group’s factory in Skælskør and has launched a strategic development project aimed at establishing common goals and reporting
standards within the area of sustainability for the whole group.
As part of this project, preparations are, among other things,
under way for all group units to be certified in accordance with
international occupational health and safety standards. This is in
addition to the existing quality and environmental certifications.
It can generally be observed that continuous investments in
increased efficiency and optimisation of the group’s production
facilities are having a positive effect on both resource consumption
and emissions relative to the concurrent development in production volume. At the production unit in Skælskør, Harboe was thus
in 2007/08 able to meet the requirements for general reductions in
a number of central areas.
In the coming financial year, Harboe will continue its targeted
efforts to analyse and map focus areas throughout the company’s
value chain from the point of view of sustainability, the aim
being to strengthen the group’s financial results and to achieve
further reductions in the environmental impact of its activities. In
connection with the annual report for 2008/09, Harboe will thus be
reporting according to a common standard within the focus areas
identified for all the group units.

34_Harboe Annual Report 2007/2008

