Management’s review

Corporate responsibility
Jyske Bank is aware of the banking sector’s general
importance to society, including its importance in
respect of financial stability, and in accordance with
legislation and business circumstances, the Group
fulfils its role it his respect.
In all respects, Jyske Bank strives to operate an honest, fair and responsible business in respect of the
Group’s values and views while upholding the balance
between shareholders, customers and employees.
Jyske Bank has not signed charters, international
principles or similar declarations on corporate social
responsibility; nor has the Group implemented specific policies on social, ethical and environmental
issues. In practice, the responsibility of Jyske Bank
materialises as a natural ingredient of the Group’s
policies and will always be based on current legislation and specific business circumstances.

transactions while paper consumption for various
statements of account, for instance, is reduced.
Jyskebank.tv is the internet-based TV station of the
Jyske Bank Group; this channel is used internally to
distribute news, views and values to the entire organisation as well as to customers and the surrounding world in the form of financial news, background
stories and other broadcasts. In this way, jyskebank.tv has replaced, for instance, paper-based internal news media, printed analyses and research reports as well as the magazine Jyske Bank Nyt.
The widespread installation of facilities for video conferencing offers opportunities for increased communication while at the same time reducing the amount
of time spent as well as transportation. Initially this
measure is used internally but later on it will be used
in connection with our advisory services.

In the opinion of Jyske Bank, satisfactory results were
achieved in 2009 from its work with corporate social
responsibility. It is expected that this work will continue in 2010.

Shareholders and capital structure
The Articles of Association of Jyske Bank do not vest
special rights in any shares, and Jyske Bank does not
offer share-option and bonus schemes.

Environment and energy
Jyske Bank uses energy for its business operations
and to create a good climate for customers and employees. Initiatives are taken and investments made
in technology and automation with a view to optimising and reducing the necessary energy consumption,
and screenings of the energy consumption at Jyske
Bank’s branches are made in cooperation with external advisers.

Jyske Bank's capital structure and capital management objective is a solvency ratio sufficient for the
Group independently to continue its lending activities
during a period of difficult business conditions. Hence
the capital must meet regulatory capital requirements in such a situation and ensure that the Group
will be able to meet serious financial challenges, supporting Jyske Bank’s general importance to society.

Through virtualisation of servers, improvement of
machinery and heat recovery, JN Data has achieved
considerable reductions in energy consumption.
Jyske Bank is increasingly making use of electronic
media for marketing and communication purposes,
which reduces the use of the printed media, and generally the Group focuses on reducing paper consumption internally as well as externally.

Customers
In its credit policy, Jyske Bank emphasises the importance of responsible conduct towards customers as
well as guarantors.
The basis of Jyske Bank’s concept for advisory services
to corporate customers is that of strategic dialogue
that will ensure the customer an overview of opportunities and risks. This entails, among other things, a
dialogue about circumstances relating to the customer’s corporate social responsibility.

Through Jyske Netbank, our customers have the opportunity to gain an overview of their finances anytime and they can easily carry out various banking
JYSKE BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2009 27

Management’s review
Investments
Jyske Bank seeks to optimise its customers’ investments on the basis of their risk profiles. In connection
with this aim, Jyske Bank is aware of the ethical problems that may arise in connection with investments.
Therefore Jyske Bank has entered into an agreement
with an external adviser, from whom Jyske Bank will
twice annually receive a screening report on companies seriously transgressing ethical norms or conventions.
In order to assess the reports from the external adviser and to act in situations posing ethical dilemmas,
Jyske Bank has established a forum which can quickly
be convened to decide on Jyske Bank’s stance or how
the Bank is to deal with such situations.
Exercising responsibility when selecting investments
is a very complicated matter. Opinions differ widely
when it comes to responsible investment. Investors,
authorities, media, politicians and interest groups
have varying definitions of the concept. Therefore
Jyske Bank has chosen not to sign certain conventions
or international charters. Jyske Bank wishes to be at
liberty to assess which companies and industries the
Bank will invest in on the basis of corporate social
responsibility.
Employees
It is an important element of the employee policy of
Jyske Bank that the Group constitutes a place of work
where lasting relations are created in a productive,
trusting and unpretentious working environment
characterised by reserves of strength and positive
energy. Another important principle set forth by the
employee policy is that Jyske Bank is a socially responsible employer within the limits set be the market economy under which it operates.
Some of the implications of the employee policy when
translated into actual decisions and actions are:
-

Jyske Bank invests large sums of money in the
training of new employees as well as employees
with some experience. The Group has also made
efforts to cover the special development needs
associated with the integration of immigrants.

28 JYSKE BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2009

-

-

-

Jyske Bank enters into agreements on part-time
or flexible jobs for employees with a reduced ability to work, and for other candidates for flexible
jobs the Group is willing to make positions available for work ability testing. If an employee has
to resign due to illness, a commitment may be
given from the Bank regarding reemployment
when the employee is again fit for duty. If an employee is granted disablement pension, the Group
will offer additional support in the form of a special disablement allowance and a pension
scheme for children in excess of what is offered
through the collective agreement.
Jyske Bank focuses on the psychological working
environment and on the prevention and treatment of stress, and methods and tools have been
developed that are available to all managers and
employees. Jyske Bank has increased its focus on
long-term absence and the negative consequences of this to the employees, the Group and
society.
Jyske Bank focuses on the physical working environment through ongoing and proactive assessments. In addition to the legal requirements, the
following areas are in focus:
Investment in individually adjustable furniture and equipment
Environmental requirements of office machines and stationery, etc.
The possibility of individual adjustment of
the indoor climate, including working conditions, temperature, noise, lighting, etc.

Jyske Banks Almennyttige Fond og Medarbejderfond (the Jyske Bank Non-Profit Fund and the
Jyske Bank Employee Fund)
Jyske Bank has established Jyske Banks Almennyttige
Fond; the purpose of this non-profit fund is to further
charitable causes as well as the development of trade
and industry. Hence, by giving prizes, etc., a number
of varying activities all over the country has been
supported for several years.
Moreover, Jyske Bank has established Jyske Banks
Medarbejderfond, whose purpose is to support current and former employees of the Group.

