Report on corporate social responsibility 2010
Jyske Bank is aware of the banking sector’s general importance to society, including its
importance in respect of financial stability, and in accordance with legislation and business
circumstances, Jyske Bank fulfils its role in this respect.
In all respects, Jyske Bank strives to operate an honest, fair and responsible business in
respect of Jyske Bank’s values and views as well as in a way that upholds the balance between
shareholders, customers and employees.
Generally, Jyske Bank does not wish to be bound by charters or declarations on responsibility;
nor has Jyske Bank implemented specific policies on social, ethical and environmental issues.
In actual practice, the responsibility of Jyske Bank materialises as a natural ingredient of Jyske
Bank’s policies on all relevant areas and will always be based on current, relevant legislation
and specific business circumstances.
In the opinion of Jyske Bank, satisfactory results were achieved from its work with corporate
social responsibility in 2010. It is expected that this work will continue in 2011.

Investments
Jyske Bank seeks to optimise its customers’ investments on the basis of their risk profiles.
Jyske Bank takes corporate social responsibility in connection with investments, meaning that
environmental, corporate social and corporate governance (ESG) issues are included in the
investment decisions.
Jyske Bank has signed the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which is a joint
declaration on corporate social responsibility in connection with investments and the fulfilment
of six key principles for responsible investment.
Jyske Bank cooperates with other investors to exercise active ownership in relation to
companies with ESG challenges.
Jyske Bank has entered into an agreement with an external adviser, from whom Jyske Bank
twice annually receives a screening report on companies seriously violating international norms
or conventions.
In order to assess the reports from the external adviser, decide on the contribution to the
cooperation with other investors on active ownership and in order to act in situations involving
ESG challenges, Jyske Bank has established an internal committee, which can quickly be
convened to decide on Jyske Bank’s stance on the individual investment or the individual
company.
Exercising responsibility when selecting investments is a very complicated matter. Opinions
differ widely when it comes to responsible investment. Investors, authorities, media, politicians
and interest groups have varying definitions of the concept. Jyske Bank does not wish to be
bound by certain conventions or international charters. Jyske Bank wishes to be at liberty to
assess which companies and industries the Bank will invest in on the basis of corporate social
responsibility.

Environment and energy
Jyske Bank is critical of construction methods and therefore it makes conscious choices in
order to deliver buildings ensuring a good working environment for its employees. Based on
common sense, Jyske Bank is conscious of sustainability of materials and solutions, and Jyske
Bank employs the best installations possible in order to minimise energy consumption.
Jyske Bank is taking specific measures in respect of conserving energy; for instance by
•
•

being critical of technologies being installed in Jyske Bank's properties;
assessing installations in respect of their operating life and energy consumption;

•

minimising energy consumption by applying carefully prepared architecture.

In 2010, Jyske Bank focused on economizing energy usage and optimizing the use of energy.
Jyske Bank focuses on the human factor as energy consumption very much depends on the
employees’ attention to energy-efficient practices. Jyske Bank has changed and simplified
installations so branches and departments will only have the light turned on when needed.
Moreover, screens and lighting for effect have been optimised and now follow a preprogrammed 24-hour rhythm.
Jyske Bank needs artificial lighting and keeps a close eye on the development of new sources
of light. In 2010, Jyske Bank replaced halogen lights with energy-efficient LED lights.
Jyske Bank plans new buildings specifically with focus on sustainable architecture and the
possibilities of constructing buildings that produce energy while at the same time economizing
on energy. In 2010-2011, Jyske Bank is constructing a building for IT operations; this building
will be an ‘energy-class 2’ building prepared for future use of alternative energy sources as
such sources become available.

Employees
An important element of the employee policy of Jyske Bank is that Jyske Bank shall constitute
a place of work where lasting relations are created in a productive, trusting and unpretentious
working environment characterised by reserves of strength and positive energy. Another
important principle set forth by the employee policy is that Jyske Bank is a socially responsible
employer within the limits set by the market economy under which Jyske Bank operates.
Jyske Bank contributes to the offering of jobs and training accessible to young people and by
offering its employees opportunities for training as well as professional and personal
development that make them attractive as colleagues with a high value on the labour market
and to society – and preferably with lasting relations to Jyske Bank.
Some of the implications of the employee policy when translated into actual decisions and
actions are:
•

•

•

•

Training accounts for a considerable portion of Jyske Bank’s profit and loss account; and in
this way Jyske Bank introduces young people to the labour market through traineeships,
student jobs or internships. Another important aspect of the training is to retain and
develop the competencies of rather experienced employees through in-service training. To
stimulate the interest in competence development and to include such activities in longlasting public education programmes, the Group has introduced the European Credit
Transfer System (ECTS) in connection with its internal training programmes.
Jyske Bank exercises much patience in connection with illness. If an employee has to
resign due to illness, a commitment may be given from Jyske Bank regarding
reemployment when the employee is again fit for duty. Jyske Bank frequently enters into
agreements on part-time or flexible jobs for employees with a reduced ability to work. For
other candidates for flexible jobs, Jyske Bank has made positions available for work ability
testing.
When organisational changes take place at Jyske Bank, it seeks to reassign employees to
other duties. Therefore, in 2010, Jyske Bank was able to avoid almost completely laying
off employees in connection with the merger of Jyske Bank's IT development functions
with Bankdata.
In cases where it becomes necessary to lay off employees, Jyske Bank will go to great
lengths to help such employees finding new employment. Therefore, more than 90% of
the employees who participated in such programmes offered in 2010 have found new
employment.

Customers
In its credit policy, Jyske Bank emphasises the importance of responsible conduct towards
customers as well as guarantors.
The basis of Jyske Bank’s concept for advisory services to corporate customers is that of
strategic dialogue that will ensure the customer an overview of opportunities available to and
risks facing him. This entails, among other things, a dialogue about circumstances relating to
the customer’s corporate social responsibility.

Shareholders and capital structure
The Articles of Association of Jyske Bank do not vest special rights in any shares, and Jyske
Bank does not offer share-option and bonus schemes.
Jyske Bank's capital structure and capital management objective is a solvency ratio sufficient
for Jyske Bank independently to continue its lending activities during a period of difficult
business conditions and therefore support Jyske Bank’s general importance to society. Hence
the capital must ensure that legal capital requirements can be met in such a situation and that
Jyske Bank will be able to meet serious financial challenges.

Jyske Banks Almennyttige Fond og Medarbejderfond (the Jyske Bank
Employee Fund and the Jyske Bank Non-Profit Fund)
Jyske Bank has established Jyske Banks Almennyttige Fond; the purpose of this non-profit
fund is to further charitable causes as well as the development of trade and industry. Hence,
by giving prizes, etc., several activities of a varying nature all over the country have been
supported over a number of years.
Moreover, Jyske Bank has established Jyske Banks Medarbejderfond, of which the purpose is
to support current and former employees of Jyske Bank.
The funds' capability to render support depends on the return on their contributed capital.
According to the Articles of Association, the majority of the contributed capital is invested in
Jyske Bank shares, and because the Jyske Bank share in line with other bank shares is still
very much affected by the financial crisis, the funds' reserves - and hence their distributions are currently limited.

