Corporate social responsibility
The Group's CSR policy and work with corporate social
responsibility is embedded with the Executive
Management and in the Group's core values of being a
credible, dynamic and responsible organisation.
The state of the environment and the needs of
consumers and employees are taken into
consideration as a material part of management's
decision-making and prioritisation processes. As a
natural consequence of Matas’s CSR policy and
mission of helping all customers to feel well, the
Group works proactively in the environmental and
health area in close dialogue with consumer
organisations and patient associations with strong
competencies. The reason why Matas has chosen to
give high priority to health and the environment in its
CSR-activities is that the Group believes that it has an
opportunity to make a positive difference in these
areas, in particular. For this reason, health and the
environment are important subjects in the training
and education of materialists, ensuring a high level of
professionalism in the advice Matas employees
provide to customers about products and their
ingredients, about environmental activities initiated by
Matas and about the initiatives to prevent illness the
Group regularly offers in the stores.

Environment and climate impact
Based on its CSR policy, Matas is active in the efforts
to protect the environment and limit the impact on
the climate from the Group's activities.
The Matas Return System is a nationwide recycling
scheme in which Matas has taken the initiative to offer
customers the opportunity to return empty packaging
from all products sold in Matas retail stores. Matas's
initiative fits very well environmentally with the EU
packaging directive, which prioritises recycling over
incineration of plastic packaging. Customers returned
19 tonnes of plastic packaging for recycling in
2015/16. The packaging was returned without
reimbursement of a deposit or any other payment to
customers for doing so. In addition to the return
system for customers’ product packaging, Matas
arranges for recycling of all packaging used to
transport goods to Matas retail stores, which added
up to a total of 27 tonnes of transport plastic and 616
tonnes of cardboard in 2015/16.

PLASTIC PACKAGING RETURNED BY CUSTOMERS (TONNES)

During the 2015/16 financial year, Matas and the
Danish Society for Nature Conservation continued
their collaboration to identify joint focus areas for
nature and environmental protection. The Danish
Society for Nature Conservation supports the Matas
Return System and sales of Matas own brand products
with the Nordic Ecolabel.
The Danish Society for Nature Conservation also
recommends that consumers buy Matas's own
recyclable bags (Environmental Fund bags). Profits
from the sale of these bags go to the Matas
Environmental Fund, which provides plants and sun
shade tents for playgrounds at child care institutions.
Up to and including the end of March 2016, the Fund
had provided financial support for 2,108 day care
institutions, 67 of them in the past financial year.
Matas also recommends that customers buy and use
these shopping bags and thereby support the Matas
Environmental Fund rather than use disposable plastic
bags. This is in line with the European Parliament's
target of reducing the consumption of disposable
carrier bags.
Matas constantly focuses on reducing and optimising
energy consumption throughout the Group with
special emphasis on lighting and cooling, which is
estimated to account for more than 80% of the total
energy consumption in the stores. The replacement of
traditional lighting sources by substantially less energy
consuming LED lighting sources will continue in an
ongoing process.

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2015/16 | Corporate social responsibility

19

In 2015, power consumption was reduced by 200,000
kWh relative to the consumption in the 2014 calendar
year.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN MWH

Based on the contents of the UNGP*, Matas continues
to give priority to providing excellent service when
handling customer complaints relating to products and
by the introduction of a new tool used to measure
customer satisfaction in the stores.
*UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights

Human rights

Consistently with the Group's CSR policy, Matas
continued its proactive work to improve all the chain's
own brand products during the financial year in order
to align them with the latest knowledge about the
impact on the environment and consumer health.
Moreover, all Matas-brand products are subjected to
bacteriological control by Eurofins Steins
Laboratorium. By the end of the financial year, 107
own-brand Matas products had been approved for the
Swan label, the official Nordic ecolabel, which may
only be used by the most environmentally friendly
products on the market. In addition to the Group's
Code of Conduct for own-brand Matas products,
contractual environmental and ethical requirements
also apply to all other products in the product range.
These requirements are stricter than the Danish
statutory requirements. As an example, suppliers have
signed declarations that all products supplied to Matas
are PVC-free.
For the purpose of increasing the share of Swan label
products when procuring goods and services for inhouse use, Matas is the first retail business to become
a member of the Sustainable Procurement Network.
The Network is managed by Ecolabelling Denmark,
which is a part of the Danish Standards Foundation.
In the financial year, Matas contributed to increasing
the awareness of Allergyapp and Kemiluppen
(Chemistry Loupe), developed by leading
dermatologists and the chemistry division of the
Danish Consumer Council, respectively. Consumers
can use the two apps to scan the bar code on
cosmetics to get information about and an impartial
assessment of the contents with respect to health and
the environment.

20

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2015/16 | Corporate social responsibility

Under the Group's CSR policy, Matas will support and
respect internationally declared human rights, cf. the
UNGP, including by avoiding any negative impact on
the employees' right to establish labour unions,
freedom of association, right to collective bargaining
and equal opportunities for women and men.
Moreover, Matas requires that its suppliers have
developed and produced their products without
exploitive child labour.

Sickness prevention and health
In line with the Group's ambition of increasing its
contributions towards the prevention of illness and
disease, Matas continued its close collaboration with
the Danish Heart Foundation and the Danish Cancer
Society in 2015/16. The objective of the collaboration
with the Danish Heart Foundation is to help reduce
the number of women suffering from heart disorders.
Today, one in four women in Denmark die from a
cardiovascular disease. Up to and including the
2015/2016 financial year, Matas has donated more
than DKK 16.4 million to the Danish Heart Foundation.
In the past financial year, the donation amounted to
DKK 1.9 million. The amount came from fund-raising,
partly from a share of revenue from sales of Matas's
own-brand luxury Plaisir skin care line. Moreover, in
the 2015/16 financial year, Matas offered Club Matas
members to use points earned to pay for membership
of the Danish Heart Foundation.
According to the Danish Heart Foundation, 285,000
people in Denmark unknowingly suffer from
hypertension which, if untreated, can lead to
cardiovascular diseases. In collaboration with the
Heart Foundation, Matas regularly offers free blood
pressure testing in its stores. In the 2015/16 financial
year, 122 Matas stores participated, and 3,344 people
had their blood pressure measured. In 9% of these
people, the measurements showed moderate to
severe hypertension, and the Heart Foundation
consequently recommended that they consult their
own doctor for follow-up examinations.
Matas continued its close collaboration with the
Danish Cancer Society during the 2015/16 financial
year with the aim of contributing to a decline in the

number of people contracting skin cancer, the most
common type of cancer in Denmark.
Skin cancer can be prevented by following important
sun advice from the Cancer Society. Matas and the
Danish Cancer Society collaborate closely to raise the
awareness of this sun advice with a special focus on
increasing people's knowledge about how much
sunscreen should be used and the minimum UV index
at which protection is needed. These messages are
disseminated through Matas's various media, on
Matas sun products and, in particular, in the individual
advice provided to consumers by trained Matas shop
assistants in the stores. The advisory skills of Matas
staff in this area are updated regularly by way of a
supplementary training course developed by the
Danish Cancer Society.
In the financial year, Matas and the Danish Cancer
Society held a full-day event at 51 Matas stores
throughout Denmark at which consumers were
offered a free subcutaneous examination to detect
any damage due to sun exposure and personal advice
from representatives of the Cancer Society.
As stated in the Group's CSR policy, Matas continually
seeks to enter into partnerships with competent
stakeholders regarding activities that could potentially
make a positive difference to consumers' health.
Matas continued its collaboration with the Danish
Lung Association during the 2015/16 financial year,
this year attracting attention to the fact that many
children and young people suffer from chronic
pulmonary diseases. As an example, one in five
children of nursery or kindergarten age suffer from
asthma. The same goes for one in ten children of
school age, and more than a thousand children and
young people furthermore suffer from rare pulmonary
diseases. In the past financial year, Matas chose to
donate half the revenue from the sale of Matas
Christmas cards to the Lung Association’s family
camps for children suffering from pulmonary diseases
and their families. This resulted in a donation of more
than DKK 50,000.
Additional information on the Group's collaborative
activities is available at www.matas.dk/responsibility.

Employee competencies
The Group's intellectual capital is deemed to be
essential for meeting the Group's growth strategy. The
goal is for professional advice in the stores under the
motto “Good advice makes the difference” to ensure
that consumers make a qualified choice among various
products – both relative to their needs and relative to

any special wishes with respect to the environmental
profile of products. Moreover, competent advice is to
lead to continuing good customer experience, thereby
strengthening the Group's strong market position.
In the 2015/16 financial year, the Group had 2,163
full-time employees (FTE), down from 2,226 last year.
In the 2014/2015 financial year, Matas continued its
efforts to provide an excellent and attractive
workplace where employee competencies and
personal and professional development are in focus.
For this reason, Matas continues to invest in a
structured training programme for all full-time Matas
shop assistants.
Training and knowledge resources
Matas is the only retail chain that trains materialists,
and by far the majority of the chain's staff are either
currently undergoing training or are trained
materialists. The two-year training programme
consists partly of an apprenticeship at a Matas store
and a training programme consisting of four modules,
correspondence school courses, a course in OTC
medicine and a final test. After completion of the
programme, materialists have the option to specialise.
Matas store managers receive additional training in
management, coaching, operations and accounting to
ensure that they have the necessary tools to handle
the day-to-day management of a store.
Matas wants to continue to attract, retain and develop
committed employees with the skills to provide
specialised service to customers. For this reason, skills
enhancing programmes are prepared for each head
office employee and each of the employees at every
store in the chain.
At Matas, it is the knowledge and know-how of the
employees which ensures that customers get the best
advice from industry specialists. This knowledge and
know-how is constantly updated through
supplementary training in health and beauty through
courses which are to some extent offered by suppliers.
To a significant degree, the Group seeks to train its
own managers, with five levels of management
training offered to materialists. This management
training helps improve and expand the skills of store
managers, their deputies and young talents: skills that
are key to the personal and professional development
of materialists and to handling the strategic tasks and
projects necessary to ensure the continuing success of
the Group.

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2015/16 | Management’s Review| Corporate social responsibility

21

The workplace
The Group continually seeks to encourage and
promote an inclusive and diverse working
environment and to maintain a safe and healthy
working environment for its employees. Matas
contributes to diversity and an inclusive labour market
through special employment plans such as part-time
work schemes and a project called KLAP (Kreativ,
Langsigtet ArbejdsPlanlægning (creative, long-term
work planning)). Matas collaborates with the Danish
LEV society on the KLAP Project whose objective is to
give people with special needs and learning difficulties
an everyday situation in the form of a job with content
and the opportunity to meet other people. At the end
of the financial year, the Group had 31 employees
under the KLAP Project.

The employee satisfaction survey shows a very good
score of more than 4.2 out of 5 for the Group as a
whole.
Matas recorded a minor 0.4% increase in the level of
sickness absence, but excluding the sickness absence
that often accompanies a pregnancy and taking into
account employees who resigned during the year, the
adjusted sickness absence rate was 2.2%, which is low
relative to peer companies.

SICKNESS ABSENCE (%)

EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION

Under the heading of “Accountability”, Matas's
website contains further details on the Group's efforts
in this respect; this information is updated regularly.
Welfare and responsibility in the workplace
In the Matas Group, proactive efforts are made to
ensure employee job satisfaction, working actively to
maintain a safe and healthy working environment and
holding annual employee development interviews and
semi-annual surveys of employee satisfaction at all
levels of the Group.
Matas continues to work actively to improve the
general level of employee satisfaction in the Matas
chain in order make Matas an even better place to
work and a better place to shop for its customers.
Anonymous surveys of employee satisfaction are
conducted for all employees twice a year, and Matas
follows up on all survey feedback.

22

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2015/16 | Corporate social responsibility

