Corporate social responsibility
The Group's CSR policy and work with corporate social
responsibility is embedded with the Executive
Management and in the Group's core values of being a
credible, dynamic and responsible organisation.
The state of the environment and the needs of
consumers and employees are taken into
consideration as a natural and important part of
management's decision-making and prioritisation
processes. As a natural consequence of Matas's CSR
policy, the Group has worked proactively in the
environmental and health area in a close dialogue with
selected consumer organisations and patient
associations, who are some of Matas's most
competent stakeholders in the area. Accordingly,
Matas gives priority to its corporate social
responsibility work by being especially focused on the
health and environment field. This forms part of the
basic training of materialists, and the Group has the
ambition of increasing its contribution towards the
prevention of illness and disease in Denmark.

Environment and climate impact
Based on its CSR policy, Matas is active in the efforts
to protect the environment and limit the impact on
the climate from the Group's activities.
The Matas Return System is a nationwide recycling
scheme in which Matas has taken the initiative to
collect empty packaging from all products sold in
Matas retail stores. Matas's initiative fits very well
environmentally with the EU packaging directive,
which prioritises recycling over incineration of plastic
packaging. Customers returned 20 tonnes of plastic
packaging for recycling in 2014/15, and the packaging
was returned without reimbursement of a deposit or
any other payment to customers for doing so. The
volume of plastic packaging returned by customers
was unchanged compared with the prior financial
year.

PLASTIC PACKAGING RETURNED BY CUSTOMERS (TONNES)
25
20
15
10
5
0
2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15

In addition to the return system for product
packaging, Matas arranged for recycling of all
packaging used to transport goods to Matas retail
stores, which added up to a total of 29 tonnes of
transport plastic and 599 tonnes of cardboard in
2014/15.
During the 2014/15 financial year, Matas and the
Danish Society for Nature Conservation continued
their collaboration to identify joint focus areas for
nature and environmental protection. The Danish
Society for Nature Conservation supports the Matas
Return System and sales of Matas own brand products
with the Nordic Ecolabel.
The Danish Society for Nature Conservation also
recommends that consumers buy Matas's own
recyclable bags (Environmental Fund bags). Profits
from the sale of these bags go to the Matas
Environmental Fund, which provides plants and sun
shade tents for playgrounds at child care institutions.
Up to and including the end of March 2015, the Fund
had provided financial support for 2,041 day care
institutions, 89 of them in the past financial year.
Matas also recommends that customers buy and use
these shopping bags and thereby support the Matas
Environmental Fund rather than use disposable plastic
bags. This is in line with the European Parliament's
target of reducing the consumption of disposable
carrier bags.
Matas has special focus on reducing energy
consumption throughout the Group and not least in
the stores, where energy consumption is highest.
Based on this wish to reduce its energy consumption,
the Group replaced some 10,000 halogen spots in
2014 by more energy-friendly LED spots in the stores.
Overall, energy consumption in the stores was

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2014/15 | Management's Review | Corporate social responsibility

19

reduced by about 200,000 kWh in 2014 as compared
with the prior calendar year, despite a net addition of
seven new stores and an unusually warm summer,
which resulted in an extraordinarily great need for
cooling in the stores.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN MWH
14,100
12,100
10,100
8,100
6,100
4,100
2,100
100
2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

As a natural consequence of the Group's CSR policy,
Matas continued its proactive work to improve all the
chain's own brand products during the financial year in
order to align them with the latest knowledge about
the impact of various compounds on the environment
and consumer health. Moreover, all Matas-brand
products are subjected to bacteriological control by
Eurofins Steins Laboratorium. By the end of the
financial year, 111 own-brand Matas products had the
right to use the Swan label, which is the official Nordic
ecolabel, which may only be used by the most
environmentally friendly products on the market. In
addition to the Group's work with environmental
improvement of own-brand Matas products,
preventive contractual environmental and ethical
requirements apply to all other products in the
product range. These requirements are stricter than
the Danish statutory requirements. As an example,
suppliers have signed declarations that all products
supplied to Matas are without PVC.

Human rights
Under the Group's CSR policy, Matas will support and
respect internationally declared human rights,
including by avoiding any negative impact on the
employees' right to establish labour unions, freedom
of association, right to collective bargaining and equal
opportunities for women and men. Moreover, Matas
requires that its suppliers have developed and
produced their products without exploitive child
labour

20

Sickness prevention and health
In line with the Group's ambition of increasing its
contribution towards the prevention of illness and
disease, Matas continued its close collaboration with
the Danish Heart Foundation and the Danish Cancer
Society in 2014/15. The objective of the collaboration
with the Danish Heart Foundation is to help reduce
the number of women suffering from heart disorders,
Today, one in four women in Denmark die from a
cardiovascular disease. Up to and including the
2014/2015 financial year, Matas has donated a total of
more than DKK 14.5 million to the Danish Heart
Foundation. In the past financial year, the donation
amounted to more than DKK 1.9 million. The amount
came from fund-raising through sales of awareness
bracelets and pins and from a proportion of revenue
from sales of Matas's own-brand luxury Plaisir skin
care line and Matas Christmas cards.
According to the Danish Heart Foundation, 270,000
people in Denmark unknowingly suffer from
hypertension which, if untreated, can lead to
cardiovascular diseases. In a collaboration with the
Heart Foundation, Matas regularly offers free blood
pressure testing in its stores, and Matas and the Heart
Foundation held an event in 154 Matas stores during
the financial year at which 6,763 persons had their
blood pressure measured. In 8% of these people, the
measurements showed moderate to severe
hypertension, and they were consequently
recommended to consult their own doctor for followup examinations.
Matas continued its close collaboration with the
Danish Cancer Society during the financial year with
the aim of contributing to a decline in the number of
people with skin cancer, the most common type of
cancer among people in Denmark.
Skin cancer can be prevented by following important
sun advice from the Cancer Society. Matas and the
Danish Cancer Society collaborate closely to
disseminate this sun advice with a special focus on
increasing people's knowledge about how much
sunscreen should be used and the minimum UV index
at which protection is needed. These messages are
disseminated through Matas's various media, on
Matas sun products and, in particular, in the oral
communication between consumers and trained
Matas shop assistants. The advisory skills of Matas
staff in this area are updated regularly by way of a
supplementary training course developed by the
Danish Cancer Society.

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2014/15 | Management's Review | Corporate social responsibility

The collaboration between Matas and the Cancer
Society with be expanded in the next financial year to
include a full-day event at 50 Matas stores at which
consumers are offered a free subcutaneous
examination to detect any damage due to sun
exposure and personal advice from representatives of
the Cancer Society.

In the 2014/2015 financial year, the Group continued
its efforts to provide an excellent and attractive
workplace where employee competencies and
personal and professional development are in focus.
For this reason, Matas continues to invest in a
structured training programme for all Matas full-time
shop assistants.

As stated in the Group's CSR policy, Matas continually
seeks to enter into partnerships with competent
stakeholders regarding activities that could potentially
make a positive difference to consumers' health. In
the past financial year, Matas entered into a
partnership with the Danish Lung Association. More
than 200,000 people in Denmark suffer from a chronic
pulmonary disease without knowing it, and a lung
function test can reveal unhealthy lungs. For this
reason, Matas and the Lung Association jointly offered
free lung function tests at 50 Matas stores throughout
Denmark. Nurses from the Danish Lung Association
conducted the tests with the assistance of healthcare
advisers from the stores. More than 2,200 people
accepted the offer and had their lung function tested
at Matas. Approximately 17% of the people tested
were recommended to consult their own doctor for
follow-up examinations.

Matas is the only retail chain that trains materialists,
and approximately 80% of the chain's staff are either
undergoing training or trained as materialists. The
two-year training programme consists of
apprenticeship at a Matas store and a training
programme consisting of four modules,
correspondence school courses, a course in OTC
medicine and a final test. After completion of the
programme, materialists have the option to specialise.

In the 2014/15 financial year, Matas also collaborated
with the Danish Doctors' Vaccination Service by
offering flue vaccination by nurses in 51 Matas stores
throughout Denmark. Almost 2,000 people in
Denmark were vaccinated at Matas on that specific
day.
Additional information on the Group's collaborative
activities is available at www.matas.dk/responsibility.

Employee competencies
The Group is active in the efforts to strengthen
Matas's market position. The Group's intellectual
capital is deemed to be essential to meet the Group's
growth strategy. Professional advice in the stores
under the motto "Good advice makes the difference"
is to ensure that consumers make a qualified choice
among various products – relative to their needs and
any special wishes with respect for instance to the
environmental profile of products. Moreover,
competent advice is to lead to continuing good
customer experience, thereby strengthening the
Group's strong market position.
In the 2014/15 financial year, the Group had 2,226
full-time employees (FTE), up from 2,216 last year.

Store managers receive additional training in
management, coaching, operations and accounting to
ensure that they have the necessary tools to handle
the day-to-day management of a store.
At Matas we want to continue to attract, retain and
develop committed employees with the skills to
provide specialised service to our customers. For this
reason, we prepare plans for the development of skills
in each head office employee and each of the
employees at every store in the chain.
At Matas, it is the knowledge and know-how of the
employees which ensures that customers get the best
advice from industry specialists. This knowledge and
know-how is constantly updated through
supplementary training in health and beauty through
courses which are to some extent offered by suppliers.
To a significant degree, the Group trains its own
managers, with five levels of management training
offered to materialists. This management training
helps improve and expand the skills of store
managers, their deputies and young talents: skills that
are key to the personal and professional development
of materialists and to the strategic tasks and projects
necessary to ensure the continuing success of the
Group.
The workplace
The Group continually seeks to encourage and
promote an inclusive and diverse working
environment and to create a safe and healthy working
environment for its employees. Special employment
programmes such as Project KLAP (Kreativ, Langsigtet
ArbejdsPlanlægning (creative, long-term work
planning)) and part-time work schemes contribute to
the inclusive working environment we wish to create.
In collaboration with the Danish LEV society and

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2014/15 | Management's Review| Corporate social responsibility

21

Projekt KLAP, Matas offers service staff jobs to people
with cognitive difficulties. At the end of the financial
year, the Group had 26 employees under Projekt
KLAP.

Group is considered to be at a relatively low level
compared with the level in the Danish retail industry in
general and, more specifically, also compared with
other workplaces with the same gender distribution.

EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION

SICKNESS ABSENCE (%)

5

3.5
3.0

4

2.5
3

2.0

2

1.5
1.0

1

0.5

0

0.0
May 2013

Nov. 2013

May 2014

Nov. 2014

Welfare and responsibility in the workplace
The Group makes proactive efforts to ensure
employee job satisfaction, working actively to
maintain a safe and healthy working environment and
holding annual employee development interviews and
semi-annual surveys of employee satisfaction at all
levels in the Group.

2011/12

2013/14

2014/15

Under the heading of "Accountability", Matas's
website contains further details on the Group's efforts
in this respect; this information is updated regularly.

The employee satisfaction survey shows a good score
of more than 4.2 out of 5 for the Group as a whole.
In the expectation that it will be possible to increase
general employee satisfaction in the Group, action
plans are laid for the 30 stores performing lowest in
the employee satisfaction survey. Partly as result of
these efforts, the level of sickness absence in the

22

2012/13

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2014/15 | Management's Review | Corporate social responsibility

