Corporate social responsibility

The Group’s statutory reporting on corporate social responsibility (CSR) is set out below. The Group's CSR policy applies to all employees in MT Højgaard and all wholly-owned companies, while the principles apply to the whole Group. Based on the CSR policy, each company also has a number of independent policies that have been drawn up in relation to its strategy, focus area and organisation. As the various companies in the Group are very different in size and structure, they work independently with the areas to suit their needs as appropriate. The CSR policy affirms our obligation to act ethically in the execution of our activities in relation to integrity, fairness and corporate social responsibility. We have integrated the UN Global Compact's ten principles in our CSR policy. Our CSR policy consists of the following main elements:  Human rights  Labour rights  Environment  Business conduct  Anti-corruption Among other things, the policy states that we condemn bribery, forced labour and child labour and do not tolerate any discrimination. We handle CSR issues in a manner that ensures that all employees in MT Højgaard and the Group’s wholly-owned companies and suppliers are aware of our positions and guidelines. We continuously ensure that our procedures and processes support the policy. All standards are integrated in the internal systems of the companies in question, and we conduct regular audits. These also cover our business partners. In the following, we will report on policies, actions and results in the areas of injury prevention, which is part of employee rights, and the environment. Both prevention of injuries and the environment are essential areas in construction and civil engineering. In the Group, we have positions on other CSR issues as well. However, we do not have a policy in this area and do not carry out planning, measurement and follow-up to the same extent. For example, we focus on training, recruiting and developing the construction and civil engineering employees of the future. Prevention of injuries We will do our best to prevent injuries and work-related illness by ensuring that our employees are trained and instructed to perform their work. At MT Højgaard, we continuously strive to improve our health and safety performance to enable us to continue to carry out all work in a safe and responsible manner. MT Højgaard and all our subsidiaries except for Lindpro are certified in accordance with DS/OHSAS 18001:2008. Lindpro expects to be certified in April 2013. Work on injury prevention is carried out locally by the individual companies in the Group. Actions, results and objectives In 2012, we worked on improving the recording of incidents that in other circumstances might easily have led to an occupational injury but in which the employee was fortunate enough not to be injured (near misses). This allows us to take preventive measures to avoid similar incidents resulting in occupational injuries in future. We keep a central record of such incidents and put preventive measures in place where possible. At MT Højgaard, we focus on drawing up local action plans so that we can address local problems closer to the source and thus make our health and safety action more relevant to the individual divisions. Several of our subsidiaries are focusing on further developing their existing APV (workplace assessment). In 2012, MT Højgaard had an injury frequency of 11.7 per one million hours worked. This is an increase on 2011, when it was 8.7. In 2012, MT Højgaard also had a target of reducing the number of lost time injuries involving 1-4 days’ absence by 10%. We did not meet that target. We will continue to pursue this target in 2013. As we focused MT Højgaard’s geographical footprint in 2012 and therefore have fewer activities abroad, we expect a higher injury frequency in 2013. This is because the injury frequency has generally been lower on international activities than on our activities in Denmark. The target is therefore 15. Environment The Group wants to take care of the environment. The basis for our environmental measures is compliance with applicable legislation in the countries in which we operate and special requirements from our customers. We want to ensure that our employees are always trained to perform their tasks in an environmentally sound manner. We encourage the development and spread of technologies that promote environmentally sound solutions. MT Højgaard and Lindpro comply with the principles in the international standard DS/ISO 14001:2004. Actions, results and objectives We are working to reduce environmental impact at our construction sites and offices as well as in the completed buildings. Construction, building materials and the resulting waste have far-reaching consequences for the environment. We therefore endeavour to formalise our work on ensuring consideration for the environment and reducing our environmental impact.

The companies in the Group implement various activities that contribute to the improvement of our environmental performance. At Scandi Byg in 2012 we converted from gas to district heat in the production halls at Himmerlandsvej, and in 2013 we will be replacing the existing lighting with a more up-to-date system equipped with lighting control. At Enemærke og Petersen and Lindpro, we are currently replacing the car fleets with lower-energy vehicles. We also focus on sustainability in the individual services we provide. Lindpro optimises energy consumption in existing buildings and provides energy advice when working on new buildings. Ajos’s portable buildings meet the requirements of building regulation BR10/BR15. Ajos also advises on energy optimisation in connection with setting up and equipping construction sites and on drawing up green budgets and accounts. Scandi Byg’s prefabricated modular buildings save resources at all stages of the construction process. In addition, we use timber in the company as the loadbearing structure, which releases a great deal less CO2 into the environment than other materials. At MT Højgaard, we advise on the options for sustainable building and refurbishment, for example by using our energy calculations and green barometer, and we also offer construction certified in accordance with BREEAM certification (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method), DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen) and LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design). In 2012, MT Højgaard completed the first stage of Valby Maskinfabrik, which will be BREEAM-certified, and we are working on the Hurup Health Centre, which will be DGNB-certified. In addition to this, we are involved in a number of projects built in accordance with energy class 2015 and 2020 – including Novo Nordisk’s head office. We actively participate in the steering committee of Green Building Council Denmark and, in 2012, we made a number of presentations on sustainability and lifecycle costing. At Ajos, we erected a further 150 cabins with heat pumps in 2012 and the same number with motion sensors. This has resulted in an annual electricity saving of over 50% in the cabins that have been fitted with heat pumps. Ajos has also bought 2,000 strip-light fittings for construction site lighting, copper-plated and with lowenergy T5 tubes, which deliver an energy saving of 24% compared with older fittings, or 19 kW per hour. In 2012, the use of double-sided printing at, among others, Scandi Byg and MT Højgaard, resulted in a reduction of 4% in the consumption of ordinary A4 paper. The reduction in 2011 was 11%. At MT Højgaard, we intend to reduce the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions from our company cars. One way in which we are doing this is by evaluating the lifecycle costs of company cars, so that maintenance and fuel consumption are included in the monthly performance that we use for the categorisation of cars that employees entitled to company cars can choose from. In 2012, this meant that MT Højgaard reduced fuel consumption per kilometre for company cars by about 2%, as the average increase in mileage per litre was around 0.3 km per litre. One of Lindpro’s targets is to achieve and document energy savings corresponding to at least 10% of energy consumption (per employee in 2009) by the end of 2013 and to achieve and document a cut in CO2 emissions corresponding to at least 20% of emissions (per employee in 2009) by the end of 2013. Achievement and documentation are proceeding to plan. The whole Group continuously focuses on the potential for further energy optimisation. Future employees We consider it important to ensure a qualified workforce for future construction and civil engineering assignments. We therefore offer apprenticeships in various skilled trades, employ rotation engineers and interns and focus on how we can be instrumental in helping young people on their way with training inside the industry. In 2012, we had around 8% of employees engaged in training, including those on apprenticeships and internships. The success criterion is 10% in so far as this is possible in relation to the economics, safety and quality of training courses offered. In order to achieve this target, Enemærke og Petersen have collaboration agreements with vocational schools and selected housing associations and municipalities to ensure more apprentices, while Ajos is working together with Lindpro on taking on apprentices for limited periods with a view to giving them the part of the practical training that Ajos can offer. In connection with an intensive four-month campaign to help young people into work or education, Employment Region Copenhagen & Zealand awarded Enemærke og Petersen a prize for its extraordinary efforts in recruiting young addicts or young offenders. The company took on 12 young people on trial and on work placements during the campaign and subsequently offered three of the young people permanent positions. At the DM in skills, MT Højgaard was awarded a CSR prize for its work with disadvantaged young people. For more than three years, we have had a young man working for us, who was originally supposed to be here for three weeks as part of a project called ‘Fællesskab med mere perspektiv’ (Community with more perspective). The three weeks turned into three years.