NEUROSEARCH 2009

Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR)
NeuroSearch has always been
focused on our social and environment al
responsibilit y. As part of t his work,
NeuroSearch commit ted it self in 2009
to t he United Nat ions’ ten principles on
sust ainabilit y: t he UN Global Compact .
Also in t his connect ion, NeuroSearch
has set up a t ask force to focus on t he
company’s CSR work in relat ion to
mat ters relevant to NeuroSearch and
our st akeholders.
NeuroSearch intends to report on t he
st at us of and progress in it s CSR work
every year. This year, we are report ing
on our CSR work based on t he UN
Global Compact principles.

Principle 6: Businesses should eliminat e
discriminat ion in respect of employment
and occupat ion.
NeuroSearch complies wit h t he UN
Global Compact principles on labour
st andards. In t his connect ion, we respect
t he following convent ions and principles,
and we ask our business part ners to do
t he same:
• The right of t he individual to est ablish
and be a member of a labour union.
• The UN Convent ion on t he Right s of
t he Child.
• Equal right s at work wit h respect to
gender, race and religion, including t he
UN convent ions in t hese areas.

Human rights
Principle 1: Businesses should
support and respect t he protect ion of
internat ionally proclaimed human right s.
Principle 2: Businesses should make
sure t hey are not complicit in human
right s abuses.

NeuroSearch has never been involved in
any legal act ion regarding infringement of
t he UN Global Compact labour st andards,
and we are not aware of any such act ion
involving any of our business part ners.

Environment
NeuroSearch support s and respect s t he
protect ion of internat ionally proclaimed
human right s, including t he UN Universal
Declarat ion of Human Right s, and we
require our business part ners to do t he
same. NeuroSearch has never been
invol ved in any legal act ion regarding
infringement of human right s, nor are we
aware of any of our business part ners
having been or being involved in any
such case.

Labour standards
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold
t he freedom of associat ion and t he
effect ive recognit ion of t he right t o
collect ive bargaining.
Principle 4: Businesses should support
t he eliminat ion of all forms of forced and
compulsory labour.
Principle 5: Businesses should support
t he effect ive abolit ion of child labour.

42

Principle 7: Businesses should support a
precaut ionary approach t o environmental
challenges .
Principle 8: Businesses should
undertake init iat ives t o promot e great er
environmental responsibilit y.
Principle 9: Businesses should encourage
t he development and diffusion of
environmentally friendly t echnologies.
At NeuroSearch, we have always focused
on limit ing t he environment al impact of
our processes and act ivit ies. Over t he
course of 2009, a t ask force under t he
working environment commit tee focused
on ways to save energy, and a number
of bot h major and minor init iat ives were
implemented. These init iat ives included
a focus on changing t he work rout ines
followed by employees in our chemist ry
laboratories, an init iat ive which has
resulted in a subst ant ial reduct ion in our

power consumpt ion. Moreover, we have
int roduced a longer night - t ime reduct ion
in bot h vent ilat ion and heat ing on a daily
basis, wit hout it making any impact on
t he working environment . Finally, we have
init iated procedures ensuring awareness
of t he tot al environment al impact in our
procurement of apparat us and ot her
equipment . As can be seen from t he figure
below, NeuroSearch’s power consumpt ion
per employee has generally declined
since 2005. This has been possible
despite t he fact t hat we use st ill more
high technology and energy consuming
equipment . The small increase observed
from 2008 to 2009 may be explained by
t he very cold December of 2009, which
forced us to use more elect ricit y on air
moistening. Also in 2009, we expanded
our facilit ies wit h 819 m 2 of offices space.
It is our goal to furt her reduce energy
consumpt ion.

Anti- corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work
against corrupt ion in all it s forms,
including ext ort ion and bribery.
• NeuroSearch does not accept and
does not offer any kind of bribe.
• Gift s received or given by NeuroSearch
must not exceed local t rivialit y
t hresholds.
• NeuroSearch has defined guidelines
for sponsorships to ensure that its
interaction with health authorities,
physicians, patient associations
and other stakeholders is ethically
unassailable and is perceived as such
by the world around it .

