Corporate social
responsibility (CSR)
Going forward the new management will have to define the Company’s future approach to CSR.
Below is a description of how CSR is handled until the divestment.

Going forward the new management will
have to define the Company’s future approach to CSR. Below is a description of
how CSR is handled until the divestment.
Nordic Tankers has focused its CSR efforts in areas related to health & safety,
environment & climate, general welfare
and training for its employees.
Introduction
In 2011 the CSR terminology became
more recognised in Nordic Tankers’ organisation and activities were better
structured under the CSR umbrella.
Nordic Tankers continued to follow the
structure of the 10 principles of the UN
Global Compact (UNGC), and has set
and will continuously set new targets
to improve in the areas covered by the
principles of the UNGC. Based on this approach the Company felt committed and
ready to sign the UNGC charter, which
was done in August 2011.
Framework
During 2011 the Company has still focused our CSR initiatives on areas within
its sphere of control: Employees in Nordic Tankers, at sea and ashore and on
vessels owned and/or technically managed by Nordic Tankers. The Company
works upon areas outside its immediate
sphere of control, but inside its sphere
of influence, such as supplier management and anti-corruption. These are areas that are more demanding, and where

26

it is difficult to make a difference as an
individual company. Initiatives in these
areas will therefore largely be based
on active participation in industry networks, nationally and globally, such as
The Danish Shipowners’ Association and
the International Maritime Organisation
(IMO). CSR efforts in Nordic Tankers are
business driven, and Nordic Tankers believes that taking initiatives that support
long-term sustainable growth globally,
nationally and within the industry, will
also prove long-term sustainable growth
for the Company.
Overall CSR policy
For further information about Nordic
Tankers’ CSR policy, approach to Human & Labour rights and Environment
and Climate please refer to http://www.
nordictankers.com/about/csr/.
Human & Labour rights
With respect to human and labour rights,
Nordic Tankers continue to focus on safety and welfare, both at sea and ashore.
Continued focus on safety and
prevention
Nordic Tankers operates a modern fleet
with an average age of only 5.6 years
(31.12.2011). Nordic Tankers owned
vessels are built at shipyards with high
standards, thus the vessels managed by
Nordic Tankers Marine have a high safety
and welfare standard compared to the
industry average at such. Nordic Tankers

Marine continuously strives to improve the
safety and welfare on board our vessels.
To follow-up on the safety on the vessels a
number of KPI’s are thoroughly monitored
on a monthly basis. These KPI’s include
among others: Lost Time Incidents (LTIs)
and Near Misses. Lost Time Incidents
are work related incidents resulting in
absence from work on a scheduled work
shift on the day following the injury. The
goal setting for the fleet for 2011 was
1.20 (lost hours per million working hours)
with an actual 2011 result of 1.45 (1.8 in
2010) equal to a total of 7 LTI’s onboard
35 vessels in 2011. None of these LTI’s
resulted in the death of any seafarer, but
any incident to any seafarer is one too
many. All incidents are thoroughly investigated and corrective measures set in
motion whenever possible. Near Misses
are important to identify and report, as
it enables the Company to prevent accidents and incidents from occurring. We
have a goal for each vessel to report minimum 4 Near Misses per month. The result
was 3.67 reports per vessel per month
(3.24 in 2010) which is at an acceptable
level. Seafarers or anybody else may report any non-compliance with rules and
policies regarding safety, environment,
and welfare through Nordic Tankers open
reporting system accessible on the Nordic
Tankers web-site.
Nordic Tankers Marine has all the safety
procedures and all the KPIs needed to
manage its vessels safely. But proce-

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)

dures are one thing, and culture is another. During 2011 investigations into how to
best bring safety from a procedural area
into being an even better integrated part
of the culture was undertaken, and based
on the findings, the first steps of implementation will take place during 2012.
Piracy continues to be a challenge
to our industry
Piracy remains a major threat to the
safety and peace of mind of the seafarers, their families and the company when
passing through the Gulf of Aden and
off the coast of Somalia and Kenya. A
major change took place in 2011 with the
introduction of use of armed guards. Nordic Tankers also adopted this practice in
addition to all other procedures already
in place. Nordic Tankers had 7 passings
through this area in 2011, but have fortunately not suffered any hijackings, or
any attacks on their vessels.
Nordic Tankers Marine participates in
the Piracy committee in The Danish Ship
Owner’s Association, which we find to be
the correct way to assert our influence
and put pressure on governments to cooperate and do something against this
serious threat to the safety of seafarers
and global trade
Connecting sea with shore
Seafarers in Nordic Tankers Marine are
all employed on conditions well above
international requirements, such as applicable ILO conventions. Through our
membership of International Maritime
Employers Committee (IMEC), all vessels flying Bahamas and Malta flags are
covered by internationally recognised Col-

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)

lective Bargaining Agreements reached
with the International Transportworkers Federation (ITF) and green cards for
these vessels have been issued. The The
Maritime Labour Convention (MLC2006)
which is expected to be ratified during
2012 or 2013, with entry into force in
2013 or 2014, is a global ILO convention
regulation employment standards and
conditions. Nordic Tankers is monitoring
the ratification process and it has already
been adapted in our procedures so we
are well prepared for the implementation.
All our seafarers are trained and educated well above the minimum standards
as laid out in the STCW-convention, as
amended in 2010. Further, the Company
invests heavily in both shore based training; computer based training onboard as
well as on our own onboard trainers, who
visit each vessel for training purposes
at least once annually. During 2012 we
will see the implementation of our competency management system as based
on the internationally recognised TOTSsystem as developed by INTERTANKO.
Good communication is a cornerstone in
the cooperation and communication between sea and shore, between seafarers
and their families or with the colleagues
in the office ashore. For this purpose all
vessels have free internet access for our
seafarers. Further Nordic Tankers opened
intranet access for all seafarers as well
during 2011.
Dedicated Nordic people
The majority of the areas addressed in
the 2010 workplace assessment (APV)
in Copenhagen were addressed during

2011. Despite the fact that there will always be areas to develop and improve,
Nordic Tankers remain a workplace with
generally satisfied and highly motivated
employees. An important focus for 2011
was to develop the leadership skills in our
management team, and our leadership
Navigation programme was successfully
completed during the fall of 2011.
Nordic Tankers supports diversity and
equality, and during 2011 The Company
signed the charter “Operation chain reaction”, an initiative by the Ministry of
Equal Rights, supporting more women
on boards. Our base line figures show
that we have 70% men and 30% women
employed. The ratio between managers
is 79% male and 21% female.
Environment and Climate
Nordic Tankers continues to focus its
environmental efforts on a reduction of
CO2 and SOx emissions at sea, and a
reduction of power usage and travelling
ashore.
ISO 14001 certification completed
in 2011
The shipping industry is responsible for
close to 80% of the global transportation
of goods and for approximately 3% of the
world’s total CO2 emissions. Compared to
other means of transportation, shipping is
by far the most energy efficient. Nordic
Tankers still wishes to continuously reduce its emissions. As fuel costs account
for a significant amount of a vessel voyage
costs, there is also a financial incentive in
reducing the consumption of fuel.
During 2011 Nordic Tankers developed a

27

Company Efficiency Energy Management
Plan (CEEMP) which will lead to the
development and implementation of a
Ship Efficiency Energy Management Plan
(SEEMP) for each Company vessel. As
planned, the Company also completed
its ISO 14001 certification and earned
its accreditation in December 2011.
ISO 14001 is a framework for a holistic
strategic approach to the organisation’s
environmental policy and planning.
All vessels in Nordic Tankers slow steam,
if the schedule allows for slow steaming,
which is the case on approximately 75% of
all voyages. Slow steaming means that a
vessel sails at less than maximum speed,
reducing fuel costs and NOx, SOx and CO2
emissions. Nordic Tankers also complies
with international requirements of burning
low sulphur fuel oil in Emission Controlled
Areas (ECA). Areas requiring the use of
low sulphur fuel oil are increasing, reducing the overall SOx emissions. Nordic
Tankers is now calculating the total CO2
emissions of its fleet according to InterManager guidelines and is reporting the
total fuel oil consumption to The Danish
Shipowner’s Association, who keep track
of the industry’s efforts in this area.
Nordic Tankers supports, participates and
ratifies all initiatives in this respect through
the Danish Shipowner’s Association and
IMO. Nordic Tankers is partner in the initiative Greenship of the Future, whose goal it
is to ensure full focus on emission reduction, innovative project in cooperation with
the maritime cluster including suppliers,
flag state authorities, shipping companies,
universities and more.

28

In the office
The IT infrastructure is outsourced to a
data center which continuously focuses
on green data solutions resulting in considerable energy and space usage reductions. During 2011 old printers in the
Copenhagen office have been exchanged
with new environmentally friendly fixed
ink printers and the old light bulbs have
been exchanged with LED. All initiatives
that reduce the electricity bill of Nordic
Tankers and create less waste and reduce CO2 emissions.
Taking CSR beyond Nordic Tankers
During 2011 the CSR committee in The
Danish Shipowners’ Association initiated
collaboration with the Center for CSR
(CenSa), an initiative under the Danish
Business Authority which is part of the
Ministry of Business and Growth. CenSa

will undertake a project called “On course
for a better World”, which amongst others will work with the creation of industry specific inspirational material with
respect to supplier management. Nordic
Tankers is collaborating in this project
and based on the findings will start setting targets in this field.
Another industry initiative that has
started during 2011 is the network now
named: Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN). The purpose of the network is to share best practices and align
policies and approaches in the field of
anti-corruption, addressing and solving
specific challenges and seeking support
from government bodies to target corrupt practices in challenging jurisdictions
and encourage root course solutions.
Nordic Tankers supports this initiative.

History
Nordic Tankers was until January 2010 a tonnage provider emerging from the
general partnership K/S Difko XLVII founded in 1984 in connection with the
acquisition of three product tankers at B&W Shipyard in Copenhagen. From
2000 and onwards freight rates generally developed positively and Nordic
Tankers built up its financial resources and invested in further tonnage. In
April 2006 Nordic Tankers set up a company jointly owned with the Italian
mbcjjchaAliojT[]]b_ffinb[nchp_mn_^chb[h^s'mct_jli^o]nn[he_lm&ij_lated by Maersk Tankers in the Handytanker pool. On 23 May 2007 K/S Difko
XLVII allotted shares in Nordic Tankers to its approximately 5,700 investors
in preparation for the Nordic Tankers’ admission to the OMX Copenhagen
Stock Exchange. In December 2009 the Board of Directors recommended
and the General Meeting adopted a combination of Nordic Tankers with parts
of Clipper Tankers, transforming the Company from a tonnage provider to a
full service shipping company. During 2010 and 2011 the Company pursued
its newly developed growth strategy the “Nordic Ambition”. Following the
anticipated transaction with Triton, the Company will once again become a
tonnage provider.

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)

