Management’s review

In connection with any dismissal of members of the
Management or other managerial staff, the maximum
term of notice is normally 12 months and the severance pay is normally a total of 12 months’ pay, and in
one case a maximum of 36 months’ pay. No defined
benefit pension plans have been established.
As the Board of Directors considers information
about remuneration to be a private matter, no information is published about the individual severance
schemes of the individual members of the Board of
Directors and Management nor about their remuneration. As a result, the Annual Report only discloses the total remuneration for the Board of Directors
and, for the Management, its total remuneration and
amount of bonus paid.

INCENTIVE SCHEMES
At the Annual General Meeting on 4 April 2008,
general guidelines relating to the incentive pay
for the Board of Directors and Management were
adopted.
The Board of Directors may grant an individually
variable number of share options to members
of Management and any other managerial staff.
Should the Board of Directors choose in any one
financial year to grant share options, the calculated theoretical market value of the share options
granted at the time of grant cannot exceed 100%
of the annual fixed pay.The value is calculated using the Black & Scholes model.
Søndagsavisen did not grant any share options in
2009. The option programme is further described
in Notes 8 and 23 to the Annual Report.

Page 14

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Policy
Historically, the Group’s handling of the elements
under the concept of ”Corporate Responsibility”
has been a natural part of the strategic and operational everyday life of the individual business units
as the management and operation of all business
units are based on a strong value platform providing the foundation for the company’s policies,
rules, procedures etc.
Thus, corporate and social responsibility form an
integral part of our standards of value, which, as
one of our fundamental principles, include showing and taking responsibility for our employees’
working conditions, situation and environment,
and ensuring that employees in the same situation
are treated equally. We also show fairness and adhere to sound business practice for the benefit of
both the customer and Søndagsavisen a-s.
Søndagsavisen a-s is constantly focusing on improving conditions related to the Group’s social responsibility on an equal footing with the
Group’s constant efforts to improve other processes and policies. Responsibility in all contexts
forms an integral part of the Group’s values and is
thus an essential element of great relevance to the
Group’s vision, targets and strategy.
As a result, the Company is permanently focused
on not only complying with and observing Danish and international rules and conventions, but
also on exhibiting responsible behaviour through
regular control, optimisation, operationalisation
and reporting to enhance the financial, social and
environmental performance.

Søndagsavisen a-s

Management’s review

Reporting is typically done in connection with
other reports to the management responsible. At
present, the individual elements are not reported
together as part of an overall CSR report, because
the elements are believed to relate more to the
individual divisions. In 2010, the Board of Directors will assess, in the light of the diversity of the
Group’s segment activities, whether any value will
be added by the preparation of common policies,
frameworks, targets and procedures for the prospective work on corporate responsibility.
Søndagsavisen a-s is focusing on the following significant matters within the CSR work.
Pay and working conditions for the Group’s
12,000 paper boys/girls and men/women
Through its distribution business, Søndagsavisen
a-s employs approx. 12,000 paper boys/girls and
men/women. Søndagsavisen is one of Denmark’s
largest workplaces for young employees. The job
as paper boy or girl is often the first real job for
many young people. This makes exceptionally
heavy demands on us as a business and on our organisation, systems and procedures to ensure that
the individual employee gains some positive and
good experience in his or her first job working
for us.

young paper boy or girl to the job before, during
and after performance of the work.
To ensure that the employee always receives a pay
reflecting the working effort performed on the
individual route, several checks are carried out,
all with the aim of ensuring that we comply with
the working environment rules and that the paper boys or girls receive a fair pay reflecting the
work they do.The distribution business has a large
number of employees who regularly provide instructions and perform evaluations and checks to
ensure that we meet our ambitions.
Integration of “new Danes”
The Company’s staff policy is based on it’s strong
standards of value, which aim at giving equal opportunities to everybody, and which require that,
in principle, everybody must meet the same demands.
As a result, the 70 % or so of the employees in the
Group’s two packing terminals who are so-called
new Danes have been well integrated, and many
of the jobs as supervisors are handled by new
Danes. This in itself produces a cumulative effect
on good integration.

The introduction to the job is always given in dialogue with both the delivery boy or girl and his or
her parents. Thorough instructions and follow-up
are provided, and comprehensive instruction material has been prepared, which, based on many
years’ experience, is aimed at introducing the

Annual Report 2009

Page 15

Management’s review

In the past two years, sick absence in production
has been declining steadily. In 2009, sick absence
among production workers was approx. 8 days a
year including long-term absence due to illness. If
the figures are adjusted for the number of employees who are long-term sick, sick absence in production is much better than the industry’s average
for hourly-paid workers.
Consumption of newsprint and ink
Søndagsavisen co-operates with a number of
Denmark’s largest and best printing facilities. Søndagsavisen’s business partners use standard paper
approved by and purchased via Pressens Fællesindkøb (Procurement Association of the Danish
Press). Pressens Fællesindkøb makes sure that
the paper is produced in such a way that it meets
the requirements of the Rio Convention of 1992.
To put it in slightly simple terms, the Convention
stipulates that the raw material must come from
sustainable production areas and that it must be
possible to produce renewable products.
To produce newsprint, wood mainly from Nordic
forests, chips from sawmills, recycled paper and
water are used. The water used in the production
process is cleaned and recycled or returned to nature – cleaner than it was when it was pumped
into production. No chlorine is used to bleach the
newsprint.

Printing ink consists of pigment. As for black
printing ink, it consists of soot, binder made from
resin and mineral or vegetable oil. It also contains
chalk and a few other ingredients.
By far, most of the second-hand newspaper is recycled into egg cartons, kitchen rolls, toilet paper,
corrugated cardboard or any other packaging material and into new newsprint.

RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board of Directors carries out an annual review of the risk management systems, controls
and policies.
The main purpose of the review is to ensure that
risks which may be critical to the Group’s ability
to achieve the set targets are identified and uncovered.
Like the rest of the Group, the overall management of the risk area is based on the principles
of the fundamental management structure, which
is described in the section on Corporate Governance.The daily follow-up and management of risks
are based on a structure of internal policies, concepts and procedures.
At Søndagsavisen, risks are divided into five levels
and illustrated as follows:

Wood from tropical rain forests is not used, and for
each two trees cut down for newsprint production three new trees are planted.The forest area is
therefore increased year by year.

Control and risk management in connection
with the presentation of financial statements

Financial risks

Operational
risks

Market risks

Mega trends and
political risks
Easy
to affect

Page 16

Difficult
to affect

Søndagsavisen a-s

