Statutory report on corporate social responsibility
Management commentary

Core values and basic principles
North Media’s business units are managed and driven by
strong core values forming the basis of the Company's
policies, rules and business processes. The Group considers
corporate social responsibility a natural element of the
different business units’ strategies and daily operations.

The wood used to produce newsprint is from FSC-certified
forests, mainly Nordic forests, where trees are felled as
new trees start to grow. In addition, the newsprint is produced from the residues from saw mills as well as recycled
paper.

Results
One of North Media’s basic principles is to demonstrate
accountability to society, customers and employees. We
also aim to demonstrate fairness and loyalty in any decision
we make.

Most of the newsprint already used is collected and recycled through municipal recycling systems and is thus included in the production of new newsprint. This helps reduce the environmental impact as much as possible.

North Media regularly focuses on CSR-related matters as
much as it does on its constant efforts to strengthen working processes and products. Being accountable in all respects is an important element of the Group's values and
therefore a key element of great relevance to the Group's
vision, objectives and strategy.

Distribution

This means that North Media constantly focuses on not just
complying with Danish and international rules and conventions, but also on using responsible behaviour to increase
its financial, social and environmental performance through
regular control, optimisation, operationalisation and reporting.
The business model for the individual segments is described on pages 8-29 of the management commentary.

Policy for reducing environmental and climate
impact
North Media considers the following two areas to be subject to particular environmental and climate risks:
•

Consumption of newsprint

•

Distribution

Consumption of newsprint
Policy
It is important for North Media A/S that the Group’s newspapers are produced following sustainable methods. This is
why the Group’s newspapers are using FSC-certified newsprint. The FSC Certificate is a global labelling system widely
supported by a number of environmental organisations
such as WWF, Greenpeace and Nepenthes.

Action
North Media cooperates with some of Denmark’s largest
and best printing houses for the printing of the Group’s
newspapers. Pressens Fællesindkøb, the procurement
association of the Danish press, and the printing houses
ensure that the requirements for the traceability of newsprint, among others, are met, which is an important element of FSC certification.

44

Policy
North Media regularly explores avenues of more ecofriendly distribution arrangements, and would in this context particularly underline No Ads+, which holds the potential for revolutionising physical distribution in Denmark and
for creating a much greener and sustainable distribution
arrangement.

Action
North Media’s subsidiary, FK Distribution, has developed
NoAds+, allowing recipients of retail leaflets to choose
exactly what printed matter they want to receive and what
not to receive. This has led to a reduction in paper consumption by approximately 70% on average per NoAds+
household.
FK Distribution has also refined its digital platform, minetilbud.dk. Via iOS and Android apps, users can look for bargains while on the road and read the latest retail leaflets
whether on a train or on their couch at home. minetilbud.dk is seeing substantial growth and will in the long run
also contribute to a greener distribution of retail leaflets.

Results
Danes have embraced the new solutions. Consumers still
want to read retail leaflets, but the modern consumer also
wants to shield the environment against unnecessary waste
burdens, and thusly takes a positive view on NoAds+ and
minetilbud.dk.
At year-end 2016, the reduced volume of paper from NoAds+ has lowered the consumption of paper by 45,000
tonnes compared to the level before the introduction of
this arrangement. Because of this, CO2 emissions have
been reduced by approx 105,000 tones calculated on the
basis of a life-cycle analysis of retail leaflets made by the
DTU Department of Environmental Engineering for
Vestforbrænding.
FK Distribution expects NoAds+ to grow further because
70% of consumers today accepting all advertisements are
interested in the solution, which also receives positive

Annual Report 2016

North Media A/S

response from an impressive 40% of current No Ads Please
households. Consequently, NoAds+ has every possibility of
becoming a green game changer in the Danish distribution
industry.
NoAds+ has in a very short time gained wide backing from
the retail trade. This is because NoAds+ consumers spend
more time reading the individual leaflet opted for, but also
because NoAds+ enables retailers to enhance their CSR
profile vis-à-vis customers, business partners and political
stakeholders.

Respect for human rights
North Media’s human rights efforts should be viewed in the
context of the Group in practice only operating in Denmark.
So, in practice these efforts are concentrated on social
aspects, including employee conditions and a general respect for human rights, see "Core values and basic principles".
It is Group policy to offer all full-time staff a pension and
health care plan (within the framework of the collective
agreements applicable for each trade Group), with related
insurance cover in the event of illness or death. It is also
Group policy to give everybody equal rights – regardless of
gender, age or ethnicity.
The Group has identified the following three areas as particular risk areas with respect to human rights and employee conditions:
•

Pay and working conditions for the Group’s distributors of newspapers and printed matter

•

Health and safety in production

•

Non-discrimination of employees upon engagement or
promotion.

Pay and working conditions for the Group's
distributors of newspapers and printed matter
Policy
Thanks to its distribution business, North Media is one of
Denmark’s largest workplaces for young people. Working
as a distributor is often the first source of money earned
outside their home. This places heavy demands on North
Media as a business and on the organisation, systems and
procedures to ensure that each of our employees has a
positive and favourable perception of their first job.

The distributors are involved in the planning of their work.
From their personal page at www.blivomdeler.nu, they can
easily plan the delivery sequence they find optimal for
visiting the individual households. Then we pack the products in the sequence requested.
To ensure that the employee always receives a pay reflecting the effort made on the individual route, various checks
are carried out. Their purpose is to ensure that we comply
with the working environment rules and that the distributors receive a fair pay reflecting the work they do. The
distribution business has dedicated employees, who regularly give instructions and check that North Media meets
the targets set.

Results
We believe that we help our young distributors develop
basic skills such as organising one’s time and planning an
assignment by offering them a job as a distributor. Add to
this attitudinal values such as reliability and a sense of
responsibility. These are all skills that help develop them as
individuals and citizens; specific skills that they will need to
have when they begin their studies and later when they
enter the job market as adults. The distributors' sense of
responsibility is also underlined by the fact that they perform on the same level as our adult distributors.

Health and safety in production
Policy
The distribution business’ policy is to put conditions in
place for a good working environment. A low frequency of
industrial injuries and sickness absenteeism and many
years of service among employees at the packing terminals
are a measure of success in that respect.

Action
The low frequency of sickness absenteeism is to be maintained on the basis of continued, close staff involvement
and visible management, but also by maintaining the systematic efforts to counter and prevent industrial accidents.
Industrial injuries are always analysed by the health and
safety organisation.
Focus is on sickness absence, and systematic follow-ups are
made on the basis of sickness interviews. In that respect,
the Company also focuses on long-term healthy employees
who have not contracted any sickness over the past 12
months.

Action
The introduction to the job is always given in dialogue with
the distributor and his or her parents. Thorough instructions and follow-up are provided, and comprehensive introduction material has been prepared, which – based on
many years of experience – is aimed at introducing the
young distributor to the job before, during and after having
done the work.

Management commentary

North Media A/S

45

Results
This has led to the successful integration of those approximately 82% of the Group’s packaging staff who are
non-ethnic Danes. As a result, the supervisory positions
are increasingly held by non-ethnic Danes, which in itself
has a cumulative effect on successful integration.

Sickness absenteeism in production
9,0
8,0
7,0
6,0
5,0

In practice, no conflicts exist in the workplace despite
the fact that people from different cultures work together.

4,0
3,0

Number of sick days

2,0

Anti-corruption policy

1,0
0,0
2012

2013

2014

Dansk Arbejdsgiverforening - industrial avarage

2015

2016

FK packing terminals

Results
In 2016, seven minor industrial injuries occurred in production. Compared to 2015, sickness absenteeism has declined
and totals 5.1 days a year inclusive of employees on longterm sick leave, equaling a sickness absenteeism rate of
2.83%. Half of sickness absence is attributable to absence
during the period under notice for staff terminated due to
the adjustment of staff to production volumes. In 2016,
staff costs have gone down by 35%. The ratio of long-term
healthy production staff without absence due to sickness is
31% in 2016. The table above shows sickness absenteeism
for the period 2011 to 2016 compared to industry figures
up to 2015.
The years of service among our production staff average
8.4 years, which should be seen in the light of the terminals
only having existed for 12 years.

Non-discrimination of employees upon
engagement or promotion
Policy
The Company’s staff policy is based on its strong core
values, which aim at providing equal opportunities to
everybody, and which require that, as a rule, everybody
must meet the same demands.
Action
For example, it is a requirement for being employed
with the Group’s packaging terminals that the candidate
is able to speak and understand Danish. Employees are
also instructed to speak only in Danish at the workplace
so that everyone can understand all conversations and
no one feels left out.
To give employees better job rotation opportunities and
thus higher job enrichment, employees not holding a
forklift driver’s licence are offered training and the opportunity to acquire such licence.

46

North Media’s anti-corruption efforts are based on its
strong core values, see description in “Core values and
basic principles”.
For example, employees have never been permitted to
receive gifts from vendors. Any gifts received from vendors,
typically before Christmas, are distributed randomly among
the individual departments by way of a draw among all
employees. Books received as part of reviews or publicity in
the newspapers are held by the editorial office and distributed among all employees before Christmas. The Group has
never recorded any cases of bribery or other type of corruption, and it is not considered a risky area.

Diversity and social inclusion policy
North Media’s objective is to be an attractive workplace to
persons with strong skills who can help develop the Group.
The overall aim of the diversity and social inclusion policy is
to ensure that all North Media employees are evaluated on
the same terms and conditions based on their competencies. Moreover, we consider diversity a precondition for
maintaining a good and innovative working environment
and strive to have a diversified composition of staff regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, nationality, sexual orientation and age. We believe that diversity is a strength that
helps the Group attract and maintain the best talent.
To North Media, social inclusion means that different
Groups of employees are able to make a career for themselves without facing cultural or organisational barriers. We
admit that ensuring this takes a special effort. For example,
we would like to have even more women managers, and
we make an active effort to achieve this objective.
At North Media, there is almost a balance of male employees and female employees. At present, the Board of Directors is made up of four members who are all men. At executive board level, the current five members are also all
men. Effective from 1 January 2016, two members were
added to the Executive Board, both of them men. The Executive Board is composed of the Chief Executive Officers
of the Group’s four business segments and the Group Executive Director & CFO. The Executive Board was supplemented because of a change in the Group's segments and
not as part of an actual recruitment process. The current
number of male and female managers is two and three,
respectively.

Annual Report 2016

North Media A/S

The policy applies to the listed Parent, North Media A/S.
The subsidiaries will be drawing up their own policies in so
far as they are subject to Danish Act no 1383 of
23 December 2012.

Increased diversity objectives, activities and
reporting
North Media makes use of employee surveys and performance evaluations to identify manager potential among
Group employees to develop staff and encourage skillful
employees to apply for a managerial position within the
Group. A key element of the Group’s staff development
efforts is to ensure that both male and female candidates
are considered and identified as part of internal and external recruitment of managers and that women and men
form part of the North Media Group’s pool of talents for
managerial positions.
Further, North Media systematically uses employee surveys
and performance evaluations to identify any barriers to
men's and women's equal opportunities to pursue a managerial career. Other measures include emphasis of equal
pay for men and women and the drawing-up of job ads
appealing to women managers.

Management commentary

North Media A/S

North Media’s Board of Directors is currently made up of
four persons, who are elected for one year at a time. The
current male Board members have been carefully selected
based on their competence as well as the challenges and
development potential faced by the Group.
When, at a given moment in time, North Media decides to
add new skills to the Board of Directors, or if a Board member would like to resign, North Media will seek to have at
least 25% of the candidates for the vacant seat(s) on the
Board represent the underrepresented gender, meaning
women at this point. Over the four-year period from 2013
to 2017, the objective is also for women to make up at least
20% of the Board of Directors. These objectives are considered ambitious, but also realistic.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 April 2016, the
present Board of Directors was re-elected, and the number
of Board members was not increased. Thus, no seats on the
Board were up for refilling.
So, the objective of at least 25% women candidates for
vacant seats on the Board and at least 20% women on the
Board has not been fulfilled yet.

47

