Statutory account of corporate social responsibility


corporate social responsibility

Aarsleff wishes to operate a responsible and sound businessin order to create job satisfaction, growth, results andprogress in accordance with the stakeholders’ expectations.We are aware that we are an integrated part ofsociety, and we wish to always comply with current norms,requirements, rules and legislation, regardless of where inthe world we operate. We respect our surroundings, and wewish to contribute to ongoing efficiency improvements ofour solutions. We work in accordance with the values of theAarsleff Group which are the fundamental principles of allour activities and actions.In our opinion, our efforts within corporate socialresponsibility have provided good results.Aarsleff’s Code of Conduct applies to all the companies ofthe GroupAarsleff’s Code of Conduct, available at www.aarsleff.com,is the overall, ethical set of rules applying to the Group’sactivities and comprises among other things:• Environmental responsibility when we produce andcontribute to environmental improvements.• Contributions to establishment of sustainable energysolutions and climate adaptation.• Requirements to comply with the internationally recognisedhuman rights, including ethical rules concerningchild labour.• Requirements to provide a safe and healthy workingenvironment.• A basic requirement that we always operate within theframework of the law and international conventions.• That we always act in accordance with current competitionlaws, and that we do not give or accept bribery inany form.• That we have the same requirements as described inCode of Conduct to our business partners and suppliers,as a minimum.Aarsleff is thus aware that the company’s activities arecarried out with respect for basic human rights, applyingto employees and suppliers. Requirements to comply withhuman rights and the prohibition of child labour form partof our decision to submit tenders and must be compliedwith during the implementation of our activities.The Code of Conduct is further supported by the policiesand guidelines of Per Aarsleff A/S, e.g.:• The values of the Aarsleff Group which were preparedand revised in the financial year and communicated in anew form at the end of 2014• Investor relations policy• Handling of inside information• Anti-corruption policy• Guidelines on compliance with competition law• Sponsorship, contributions and donations for charity.To ensure a continuous development of our corporate socialresponsibility, we wish to focus on the below-mentionedareas in future years based on the overall policies and targetsmentioned above.Environmental improvements, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SWe wish to support society’s interest for environmentalimprovements, e.g. by reducing energy consumptionthrough the use of environmentally friendly methods andmaterials.In the financial year, we have commenced the work onmodels of calculation for CO2 savings potential by choosingalternatives within materials, methods, procedures andequipment in connection with the execution of sewer work.The first versions of the operational calculation modelsare now available and used for trenchless sewer renewalin Pipe Technologies and for traditional sewer work inConstruction. The models are expected to be further developedin the future financial year by calculations on specificprojects in collaboration with customers.

Management’s review

27

Pipe Technologies has chosen to replace the generatorswith lithium batteries in all new CCTV vehicles. In additionto saving fuel for the operation of the generator, the noisehas disappeared. In the financial year, Pipe Technologieshas installed lithium batteries in two CCTV vehicles andtwo installation units and by the end of the financial year,Pipe Technologies has a total of seven units with minimumenergy consumption. In the financial year, we have installedsolar cells on two site huts on a test basis.Construction has planned that all its drivers of vansand passenger cars must complete a course in eco-friendlydriving. This is done with a view to reducing fuel consumptionand the consequent CO2 impact. Construction has alsodecided to become certified in accordance with DS/EN ISO14001:2004. The aim is to become environmentally certifiedby the end of 2016.The policy “Summary of quality, environmental andoccupational health and safety management” supports ourwork with this issue.In our opinion, our efforts within environmental improvementshave provided good results, and we will continueour activities.Climate adaptations, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SOne of our most important focus areas is to continuedeveloping our products and infrastructure projects tomitigate the negative effects of long-term environmentalimpacts, e.g. within wastewater handling and coastal andharbour protection.We want to be an active co-player when projects of benefitto the environment are carried out. An example of this isa South Jutland-based biogas plant which will become thelargest in Northern Europe. In collaboration with the customerand the customer’s consultant, the project is commencedby a design phase which is expected to be followedby a contract for execution. The plant is constructed foroptimum utilisation of raw materials. The energy extractionrate will be high, and the residual product is odour-freeand can be spread directly on the fields. The Aarsleff Grouphas the expertise for the entire building process, from sitedevelopment to the installation of process equipment.In our opinion, the implementation of a number ofprojects has contributed to sustainable climate adaptationsolutions, and we will continue our activities.Development of knowledge in interaction with the outsideworld, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SDevelopment of new, simple and more cost-efficient solutions– preferably in collaboration with our customers – isalso one of our focus areas. Increased knowledge sharingwith our customers takes place through long-term workingrelationships resulting in joint development of know-how.In collaboration with our customers, we focus on methoddevelopment, appropriate plans for execution and specificcustomer preferences to solutions.The framework agreement on No-Dig renewal with theutility company Aarhus Water is an example of developmentof knowledge in interaction with the outside world.There is a close collaboration between Pipe Technologiesand the client on the project. At semi-annual workshops,we analyse the energy consumption and plan the executionof the work in consideration of the CO2 targets. Togetherwith Aarhus Water, we have set a target to reduce the CO2emission by 10% before 2015. The framework agreementruns from 2010 to 2015 which means that we must save anaverage of 25 tons of CO2 per year. In collaboration withAarhus Water, Pipe Technologies has launched differentinitiatives relating to the planning of the assignments andmethods for execution. In the calendar year 2013, we saved38 tons of CO2.Another example is a project in Brøndby where wecarried out a rainwater reservoir extension. From thebeginning, the customer planned to carry out the extensionin the same way as the former rainwater reservoir, i.e.by a traditional construction of subbase gravel and basecourse gravel with drainage and well with pumps for water

Management’s review

28

drainage. However, during the planning and design phase,we suggested other solutions to the customer. One of themwas to establish the bottom of the reservoir by means ofthe lime stabilisation method. This meant that drainageand pumps could be left out of the project and thus also thefuture maintenance of these. It turned out that there was5,000 tons of contaminated soil of class 2 and 3 in the areawhich we were able to incorporate on site. As a result, weavoided the environmental impact involved in the transportationof the soil for deposit. During the project, weexchanged knowledge with the client, the consultant andthe collaboration partners. The construction work was carriedout in half the time which meant that the reservoir wastaken into use six months earlier than planned.In our opinion, a number of cooperative relationshipswith customers have contributed to the development ofnew, simple, improved and more cost-efficient solutions.The activities continue.Training, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SWe believe that one of our social responsibilities is to trainyoung people: apprentices and trainees as well as skilledbuilding operatives and engineers. We wish to develop ourcollaboration with the educational institutions by increasingthe number of traineeships and internships.Our training responsibility also comprises special trainingof unskilled workers. This involves holding targeted,internal courses, primarily within the industrialised fieldsof activities, e.g. Pipe Technologies. As a specialised contractorwithin the civil engineering business, we find thisspecial training just as important as the apprenticeships,seen from a social perspective.During the financial year, we have had 65 apprenticesand 32 trainees. 55 workers were enrolled in internal, specialtraining for unskilled workers in Pipe Technologies.We have set up targets for the number of employeesfrom the following three employee groups which are beingtrained in the company:• Apprentices 10%. Our basis is this financial year with anaverage of 65 apprentices. This corresponds to 7% of thehourly paid employees.• Trainees 5%. Our basis is this financial year with anaverage of 32 trainees. This corresponds to 4% of thesalaried employees.• Internal, special training of unskilled workers 6%. Ourbasis is this financial year with an average of 55 unskilledworkers enrolled in internal, special training. Thiscorresponds to 6% of the hourly paid employees, meaningthat we have reached the desired level which mustbe maintained.In our opinion, we have obtained good results, and we willlaunch plans of action to achieve and maintain the targets.The policies ”Policy for apprentices” and ”Policy for trainees”support our work with the above.Staff conditions, working environment and safety,applying to Per Aarsleff A/SAarsleff is certified according to OHSAS 18001. We wish thatour working environment is characterised by the following:we are the best in the business within occupational healthand safety, and a safe working environment has a higherpriority than reasons of economy.In continuation of our occupational health and safetystrategy which was implemented at the beginning of theyear, we have launched an internal campaign. Among otherthings, the campaign comprises a training plan whichensures that all employees at all levels of the company willbe trained in occupational health and safety. In this currentfinancial year, we have carried out the following courseswith the mentioned number of participants:• Introduction to health and safety: 345 employees, primarilyhourly paid employees• Health and safety for foremen: 52 employees

Management’s review

28

• Health and safety for OHS site representatives:37 employees• Health and safety for managers (in the productionas well as in the office area): 135 employees.As it appears from the graph on this page, we arewell underway with our occupational health andsafety targets in so far as concerns the accidentrate. The number of reported near-miss incidentsis increasing; we consider this a positive sign,because it allows us to prevent accidents. Our sicknessabsence rate, which is exclusive of sicknessabsence for employees subject to a statutory Danishagreement on refunding of sickness benefits inconnection with prolonged or chronic diseases etc.,absence due to accidents, child’s first day of illnessand maternity leave, is satisfactorily low and belowour target of 2.5%. In this current financial year, thefigure was 2.1%. We wish to maintain a low sicknessabsence, so we will continue having focus on thisparameter.Management training and targets for the underrepresentedgender, applying to Per Aarsleff A/SAarsleff’s target is to continuously develop andstrengthen all management levels of the company.Internal courses of development are carried out forcurrent and prospective managers and combinedwith ongoing strengthening through recruitment.During the past financial year, 30 managers havecarried out the internal management developmentcourse.We have set up targets for the underrepresentedgender in top management. For the other managementlevels, we have formulated a policy with thepurpose of increasing the number of women inleadership positions.Our goal is that by 2017, the share of women inthe board of directors of Per Aarsleff A/S is to constitute25% of the shareholder-elected members.The goal is based on four shareholder-elected members,alternatively 20% if it is five members. We willalways ensure that the requirements to qualificationsfor board members are the same, regardless ofgender, and that board members are elected on thebasis of the qualifications required. The share of theunderrepresented gender in the board of directorsis 0% at 30 September 2014.We have formulated a policy for the othermanagement levels in Per Aarsleff A/S with a viewto increasing the share of the underrepresentedgender. In the financial year, we have employed fivenew managers at the other management levels; oneis a woman. All of them are employed in accordancewith criteria in Aarsleff’s policy to increase theshare of the underrepresented gender. The employmentshave not significantly changed the gendercomposition in the company’s other managementlevels. The policy is that we wish to have an openand unbiased culture that allows the individualemployee to use his/her qualifications in the bestpossible way, regardless of gender. The purpose ofthis policy is to contribute to increasing the totalpotential for female managers in the business. PerAarsleff A/S operates in a male-dominated businessculture. This is significantly reflected in the numberof male and female employees at all levels of theorganisation.

09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14
DA statistics of building and construction,
calculated per calendar year

