Occupational health and safety, quality and the external environment

Our goal for 2009 was to obtain occupational healthand safety certification. In 2009, Per Aarsleff A/Swas awarded occupational health and safety certificationaccording to the OHSAS 18001 standard. Weconsider good planning and careful preparation acontributory precondition for a good occupationalhealth and safety environment. We ensure thataspects relating to occupational health and safetyare considered already in the design phase and inthe selection of method. During our working day,we ensure order, tidiness and a systematic layoutof the individual workplaces. We are committed toimproving occupational health and safety on anongoing basis.The goal for 2009 was a reduction of the numberof accidents compared to the number of accidents in2007 and to obtain an incidence of accidents belowthe average of the business in 2007. The number ofaccidents per million working hours in 2008/2009is markedly below the level of both 2006/2007 and2007/2008. The total incidence of accidents is 27.1 forthe financial year against the average of the businessof 31.7 in 2007. Both goals concerning numberof accidents for 2008/2009 have thus been met.The goal for 2009/2010 is to achieve a continuedreduction in the number of accidents and to bebelow average of the business for 2008.We are aware that our activities affect our surroundings.In both the design phase and in the selectionof method, we will seek to minimise adverseenvironmental impacts, CO2 impact and energyconsumption. When handling materials, we will seekto avoid waste and excessive consumption. Whenselecting machines, we will take into considerationfuel efficiency and noise level, and through efficientplanning in general we will seek to minimise theemployment of resources. We will pay attention tocorrect handling of waste and to possible recycling.Applying our accomplished competencies asa general infrastructure contractor, we activelyparticipate in providing solutions that contributetowards positive climate impacts, for instance inconnection with the construction of wind farms andextension of railway networks.In 2009, Aarsleff introduced a new curingmethod for CIPP Lining in connection with No-Digpipe renewal in dimensions of up to DN200 basedon LED light characterised by a high wavelengthand improved energy efficiency. LED technologyis experiencing a rapid development, and the goalfor Aarsleff’s development in this field is to reducethe CO2 emission of our current methods by 75% in2029.Concurrently with the occupational health andsafety certification work in the parent company, themanagement systems for occupational health andsafety, quality and the environment are continuouslydeveloped in the parent company as well asin the subsidiaries Wicotec A/S, Petri & Haugstedas, Dan Jord A/S, Centrum Pæle A/S and Brdr.Hedegaard A/S.

DA statistics of building and construction

