Corporate social responsibility

Aarsleff wishes to operate a responsible and healthy businessto create job satisfaction, growth and development. Weare aware that we are an integrated part of society, and wewish to always comply with current norms, requirementsand legislation. We respect our surroundings and want tocontribute with continuous efficiency gains of our services,many of which are requested by our public sector customers.We wish to support society’s interest for environmentalimprovements, among other things by reducing energyconsumption through the use of environmentally friendlymethods. In addition, we wish to keep working withimprovements of the working conditions of our employees.We wish to take on this responsibility and be a crediblepartner to our customers and business connections as itcontributes positively to the company’s results and thewellbeing of our employees.The above-mentioned position on corporate socialresponsibility is based on Aarsleff’s Code of Conduct and isalso included in our occupational health and safety policy.In 2009/2010, we have focused on the following areas:• Further development of our infrastructure projects todeal with environmental impacts. This is done throughproduct development and development of new improvedproduct solutions with reduced environmental impactcompared to previous solutions.• Increased knowledge sharing with our customersthrough framework agreements with public sectorcompanies. This means that in collaboration with thecustomer, we focus our efforts on method development,appropriate plans for execution and specific customerpreferences.• Improved employee safety and collaboration to maintainsatisfied employees which are capable of working fullyresponsibly with regard to safety and health.To ensure a continuous development of our corporateresponsibility, we wish to focus on the below-mentionedareas over a period of 3-5 years.Environmental aspectsWe contribute to Denmark’s leading position withinenvironmentally friendly energy. Our work as a contractoron some of the world’s largest offshore wind farms,first Nysted Offshore Wind Farm, then Horns Rev 2 andmost recently Rødsand 2 has meant that this field has beenfurther developed and practically executed. During thisfinancial year, we will start the execution of foundations forthe London Array Offshore Wind Farm as contractor.Through these ongoing offshore wind farm projects andthrough training of our employees, we obtain great knowledgeabout the practical execution of the projects. In thisway, society obtains a particular competitive advantage. Wefocus on executing the projects with the least possible useof environmentally unsustainable resources.In our pile production at Centrum Pæle A/S, we havefocused on minimising energy consumption since 2006. Thehighest energy consumption takes place in the productionwhere an energy reduction of 30% has been obtained from2000 to 2007 through production optimisation. We continue

Management’s review

39

our production optimisation activities in 2008-2010 and expect to minimise energy consumptionfurther.Development of knowledge in interactionwith the outside worldWe wish to build, expand and maintain our frameworkagreements with public sector customersbecause in this way, we can develop new methodsthat provide long-term environmental improvements.Our framework agreements with AarhusMunicipality on sewer system renewal are anexample of this. Over a ten-year period, we areable to carry out optimum planning of the renewalwork in collaboration with Aarhus Municipality;e.g. time in consideration of other activities in thearea, prioritisation of the renewal together withthe customer in order to replace the most criticalpipes first as well as exploitation of the both thecustomer’s knowhow and our own. Optimisationand project development also take place withinchoice of method as we collaborate with AarhusMunicipality on both trenchless pipe renewal andconventional sewer renewal.The framework agreement includes targetsabout competence development together withthe customer within state-of-the-art pipe renewaltechniques. Among other things, the developmenthas resulted in decreasing prices – i.e. more sewerrenewal for the money and increased competencieswith the local authorities.Safety and collaborationWe focus on occupational health and safety. We wishthat our employees work safely and that attritionin the workplace is prevented. Our goal is to reducethe number of accidents at work by preventingthat accidents occur. Wicotec A/S (in 2007), Petri &Haugsted as (in 2003) and Per Aarsleff A/S (in 2009)all hold an occupational health and safety certificate.The sites of Aarhus Municipalities’ reservoirsare an example of our safety culture. These arecharacterised by having managers and employeesthat give safety a high priority. A risk assessmentof all new projects is prepared before the work isinitiated, and the employees are involved in theplanning at an early stage. The hourly workers arealways consulted and are among the frontrunnerswhen it comes to safety issues. Loyal reporting isdone to the near-miss accidents scheme, and theworkplace follows up with new and safe measures.In 2010, the smiley scheme was introduced duringsafety rounds with the well-known requirementsto the smiley scheme from the Danish WorkingEnvironment Authority. The record is that duringnine consecutive safety rounds, a green smiley wasawarded at every round. The average is 3-4 cleanrounds. There is an ideal collaboration between themanagement at the site and the hourly workers.

Management’s review

DA statistics of building and construction,
calculated per calendar year

