1/3

Corporate social responsibility
Per Aarsleff’s corporate social responsibility policy is based on operating a sound and financially responsible business to
create job satisfaction, growth, results and progress. We are aware that we are an integrated part of society, and we wish to
always comply with current norms, requirements, rules and legislation, regardless of where in the world we operate. We
respect our surroundings, and our ambition is to provide continued efficiency improvements of our services. The principle
elements of our corporate social responsibility are the Aarsleff Group’s mission, vision and values as well as our Code of
Conduct.
In the financial year 2015/2016, we have extended our work with Per Aarsleff A/S's corporate social responsibility in a
number of areas, so the results have not yet been reported. For the financial year 2014/2015, the reporting of efforts and
results will thus only relate to human rights, environmental conditions and responsible social development.
Fair business practices
We want to contribute to a sound, democratic and competitive development of society in Denmark and abroad. We do not
allow any kind of price cooperation, cartel formation or abuse of market dominance. We always act in accordance with
current competition laws, and we do not give or accept bribery in any form.
In the financial year 2015/2016, we will provide training to relevant employees to make sure they understand and comply
with current competition laws. In 2012, the management team participated in an internal seminar on competition law.
Human rights
We always carry out our projects with respect for basic human rights. Requirements to comply with human rights and the
prohibition of child labour form part of our decision to submit tenders and must be complied with during the implementation
of our projects. We can affect compliance with human rights by training our employees, because their quality of life and
development opportunities are important to the individual employee and to the company’s development. So we will focus our
efforts on this area.
•

We will encourage our employees to develop their professional and personal qualifications by focusing on lifelong
learning. In the financial year 2015/2016, we will implement a pilot project providing Danish language training to
employees with reading and writing disabilities.

•

In the financial year 2014/2015, we have made an effort to ensure good working terms and conditions for all Danish
and foreign temporary employees hired via temporary employment agencies. In particular, we have made a careful
selection of suppliers and have followed up on the suppliers and the employment conditions of their temporary
employees.

Environmental conditions
We wish to support society’s interest for environmental improvements, e.g. by reducing energy consumption and using
environmentally friendly methods and materials and by reducing waste on our construction projects. One of our most
important focus areas is to continue developing our products and infrastructure projects to mitigate the negative effects of
global warming e.g. within wastewater handling and coastal and harbour protection. We are implementing the environmental
system ISO 14001, and we expect to be awarded our environmental certification for Per Aarsleff A/S by the end of 2016.
With energy saving efforts, we can help ensure a better environment and reduce the negative impact on our climate. So we
will focus on the following environmental and energy saving efforts:
•

In the financial year 2015/2016, we will increase our focus on energy-saving and environmentally friendly company
cars. We will only acquire company cars with energy mark A+++ to A (cars) and energy mark A+ to D (vans). We
will, whenever possible, install an idle-stop system on all old and newly acquired lorries. We expect that this
initiative will reduce CO2 emissions significantly.

•

In the financial year 2014/2015, when we carried out the framework agreement on No-Dig renewal with the utility
company Aarhus Water, we expected to reduce CO2 emissions of relining work by 2% per year and 10%
throughout the entire execution period from 2010 to 2015. We have achieved this target.

Labour conditions
We wish to be the best in the business within occupational health and safety. And we wish to assign high priority to a safe
and value-adding working environment. We are certified according to OHSAS 18001, and we continuously focus on
improving our working environment.

Corporate social responsibility 2014/2015

2/3

•

We aim at zero accidents and an accident rate (number of accidents causing absence besides the day of the injury
per million working hours) at below 5 at the end of 2015/2016. Our accident rate figures from the past three years
show that we are on the right track. The accident rate for 2014/2015 has been reported at 1 November 2015:
2014/2015: 9.2
2013/2014: 10.3
2012/2013: 14.1

•

Our sickness absence target is an absence rate of maximum 2.5%. Our sickness absence rate figures from the
past three years show that we have achieved our target.
2014/2015: 2.28%
2013/2014: 2.16%
2012/2013: 2.75%

Consumer conditions
We wish to be a competent, responsible and quality-conscious collaboration partner. In collaboration with our
customers, we work determinedly on method development and development of new, simple, improved and more costefficient solutions at all levels of the organisation. Increased knowledge sharing is a natural part of our long-term customer
working relationships and enhances our know-how and that of our customers. Our target is that Per Aarsleff A/S is quality
certified according to ISO 9001 by the end of the financial year 2015/2016.
Responsible social development
Based on a priority of stakeholders, we have decided to initiate action plans on the following areas.
•
•

Training of apprentices (action plan 1)
Planned traineeships for engineering students (action plan 2).

Action plan 1: We are committed to train apprentices.
In our opinion, the training of apprentices is one our most important corporate social responsibilities. The foundation of our
success is that our employees have a high professional level and that they constantly develop. It is a natural part of our
operations to train apprentices, and it is also a natural part of our corporate social responsibility to share and pass on our
expertise and know-how.
Our target is that the number of apprentices must account for at least 10% of our hourly-paid workers.
Financial year
2014/2015
2013/2014

Apprentices
77
65

Share in %
7.9%
7%

For the next financial year, we have implemented the following initiatives:
•

Some of the departments of Per Aarsleff A/S and some of the companies of the Aarsleff Group cannot fully meet
the training requirements of the apprentice training programmes set by the education committees. Our target is to
establish apprentice training programmes across departments and companies of the Aarsleff Group, allowing us to
provide apprenticeships that meet the training requirements in full.

•

Develop closer dialogue with educational institutions.

Action plan 2: We have engineer trainees
We wish to attract, maintain and develop the best employees within the engineering disciplines. We can achieve this by
means of planned traineeships. We see it as part of our corporate social responsibility to participate actively in the training of
employees for the technical disciplines. This way, we ensure that the construction and civil engineering business has the
right qualifications, also in the future.
Our target is that the number of trainees must account for at least 5% of our salaried employees.
Financial year
2014/2015
2013/2014

Trainees
54
32

Corporate social responsibility 2014/2015

Share in %
7.2%
4%

3/3

We have achieved our target but to maintain our good results, we have implemented the following initiatives:
•

Increase our employer branding activities aimed at students and newly qualified engineers and increase our
participation and visibility at recruitment and jobs fairs.

•

Develop closer dialogue with educational institutions.

The underrepresented gender
This statement of the underrepresented gender is the statutory statement for the financial year 2014/2015 prepared
according to section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act.
We have set up targets for the underrepresented gender in top management. For the other management levels, we have
formulated a policy with the purpose of increasing the number of women in leadership positions.
Our target is that by 2017, the share of women in the board of directors of Per Aarsleff A/S is to constitute 25% of the
shareholder-elected members. The target is based on four shareholder-elected members. Alternatively, 20% if it is five
members. We will always ensure that the requirements to qualifications for board members are the same, regardless of
gender, and that board members are elected on the basis of the qualifications required. The share of the underrepresented
gender in the board of directors is 0% at 30 September 2015.
We have formulated a policy for the other management levels in Per Aarsleff A/S to increase the share of the
underrepresented gender. The policy is that we wish to have an open and unbiased culture that allows the individual
employee to use his/her qualifications in the best possible way, regardless of gender. The purpose of this policy is to
increase the total potential for female managers in the business. However, Per Aarsleff A/S operates in a male-dominated
business culture. This is significantly reflected in the number of male and female employees at all levels of the organisation.
•
•
•

The share of women in the board of directors of Per Aarsleff A/S
The share of women in top management of Per Aarsleff A/S
The share of female employees of Per Aarsleff A/S

2014/2015
0 of 4 (0%)
3 of 23 (13%)
215 of 1,823 (12%)

To increase the share of the underrepresented gender, we have implemented the following initiatives:
•

In our recruitment process, our aim at all management levels is to have both genders represented in the field of
potential candidates. We will also ask external recruiting agencies to provide candidates of both genders.

•

We will continue to employ trainees of both genders from the engineering colleges, as this in a long-term
perspective will bring skilled employees at all levels and new management potential to the company.

We have decided to align our corporate social responsibility work with the structure of DS 49001.

Corporate social responsibility 2014/2015

