Corporate social responsibility

Statutory account of corporate social responsibility

Aarsleff wishes to operate a responsible and sound businessto create job satisfaction, growth and development. Weare aware that we are an integrated part of society, and wewish to always comply with current norms, requirementsand legislation. We respect our surroundings and want tocontribute with continuous efficiency gains of our services,many of which are requested by our public sector customers.We wish to support society’s interest for environmentalimprovements, e.g. by reducing energy consumptionthrough the use of environmentally friendly methods. Inaddition, we wish to keep working with improvements ofthe working conditions of our employees. Based on ourCode of Conduct, we wish to take on this responsibilityand be a credible partner to our customers and businessconnections, as it contributes positively to the company’sresults and the wellbeing of our employees.We have the following focus areas:• Further development of our infrastructure projects todeal with environmental impacts. This is done throughproduct development and development of new improvedproduct solutions with reduced environmental impactcompared to previous solutions.• Increased knowledge sharing with our customersthrough framework agreements with public sectorcompanies. This means that in collaboration with thecustomer, we focus our efforts on method development,appropriate plans for execution and specific customerpreferences.• Improved occupational health and safety to maintainsatisfied employees which are capable of working fullyresponsibly with regard to safety and health.In our opinion, our efforts in connection with corporatesocial responsibility have provided good results.To ensure a continuous development of our corporatesocial responsibility, we wish to focus on the followingareas over a period of three years.Environmental aspectsIn accordance with the Aarsleff Code of Conduct, we takeenvironmental considerations during the design phaseas well as during selection of methods. Below, we haveselected some activities to illustrate this.In our pile production at Centrum Pæle A/S, we havefocused on minimising energy consumption since 2006. Thehighest energy consumption takes place in the productionwhere an energy reduction of 30% has been obtainedthrough production optimisation from 2000 to 2007. Afterthree years of status quo with the level obtained in 2007, wehave once again halved the energy consumption per cubicmetre of concrete during the financial year, e.g. by installinginsulated high-speed gates in our most used casting facility.In the partnering framework agreement on No-Digrenewal with the utility company Aarhus Vand A/S, PipeTechnologies has set a target to reduce the CO2 emission by10% before 2015. The framework agreement runs from 2010to 2015 which means that we must save an average of 25tons of CO2 per year. In collaboration with the customer, wehave launched different initiatives relating to the planningof the assignments and methods for execution. At the endof the calendar year 2011, we have saved 19 tons of CO2,corresponding to 1.5%. We continue to refine the productionmethods to minimise the environmental impacts, bothinternally and with our subsuppliers, and we expect to beable to continue reducing the CO2 emission in the comingfour years of the project period.Østergaard A/S in Vejle, which was included in theAarsleff Group in 2011, has a production method which isenvironmentally friendly. By means of horizonal directionaldrilling and tunnelling methods, we are able to establishwater pipelines of very large dimensions without excavation.This is beneficial to society in several ways; firstly, ourtrenchless methods cause very little inconvenience to thesurroundings and secondly, we contribute to upgradingthe pipe system and solving the problems related to thedischarge of increasing amounts of rainwater.

management’s review

41
In connection with further development of drillingprinciples and drilling rigs, Østergaard A/S hasalso worked on reducing the environmental impact.An important measure is to reduce the amount ofdrilling mud which is to be disposed of. Previously,the drilling mud was taken to a waste deposit. Now,all dry matter such as stone, soil and sand is separated.As a result, the drilling mud can most oftenbe pumped directly from reception pit to recirculationplant. And we are now transporting smalleramounts of drilling mud to the waste deposit, andthe consumption of fresh water for this productionmethod has been reduced by 60 to 80%, as most ofthe drilling mud is recirculated with contents ofwater.Our environmental policy comprises an objectiveof reducing the total environmental impact by minimisingthe consumption of fuel. To focus on thisobjective, the plant drivers of Construction havecompleted a two-day fuel-saving course. During thespring of 2012, more than 40 plant drivers attendedthe course and were instructed in economical,efficient and fuel-saving operation of the machines.We have benefitted by getting more specific ideasfor fuel consumption reduction. Actual initiativesincluded installation of oil-fired burner in themachines as a standard, reduction of idle-runningperiods, reduction of revolutions as well as taskspecificselection of machinery and equipment. Allinitiatives minimise the fuel consumption. In orderto benefit the most from the saving potential, abehavioural change is vital. It requires continuousfollow-up but based on the received feedback, weare, indeed, able to register behavioural changeand savings. However, with no specific indication inlitres.We will continue following up on the cost-savingelements. The results will show whether the effectscan be further enhanced by extending the targetgroup to the remaining plant drivers which are notpermanently-employed drivers as well as includethe other trade groups and supervisors. A sidebenefit is that the course has strengthened theloyalty between the colleagues and contributed toincreased exchange of experience among the plantdrivers.Development of knowledge in interaction withthe outside worldAccording to our mission, we want to possess theengineering and contracting qualifications of thefuture. We also state that we are always looking fornew, simple and improved technical solutions – preferablyin collaboration with the customers. Below,we have selected some activities to illustrate this.We believe that one of our social tasks it to trainyoung skilled building operatives and engineers. Wealways have engineer trainees or newly qualifiedengineers on our international projects. We consistentlyhave about 20 building operative traineesenrolled in a training programme. It may be youngpeople who come directly from the primary andlower secondary school or are enrolled in vocationaltraining, or adults who are unskilled workersand wish to qualify as skilled building operatives. Insome of the framework agreements with the utilitycompanies, we employ engineer trainees as well asbuilding operative trainees at the same time.In the framework agreement with the utilitycompany Aarhus Vand A/S, we have focused onknowledge sharing with the customer and internallybetween the crews that are carrying out thework. Knowledge sharing takes place when theindividual employees or the whole crew come upwith improvement ideas which benefit the solutionof the project and even make the work safer in

management’s review

42
terms of occupational health and safety. The improvementideas are reviewed in the crew prioritised in terms of effectand costs. Then, they are registered in a common formcalled “Measures for improvements”, and the good ideasare shared among the crews. Many improvement ideas canbe implemented quickly because they provide a significanteffect and are not particularly expensive. The currentimprovement activities mean that the customer in futurewill be better prepared for specifying execution requirementsin future tender documents.On our road project in Tanzania, where we train pupilsin road safety, we have participated in a road constructionexhibition. At our exhibition stand, we showed the safetyissues which are implemented in the project including roadsigning to avoid accidents and road safety education. Also,we handed out flyers for both children and adults with illustrationsshowing how to avoid traffic accidents. The localpopulation visited the exhibition; everyone was welcome,and admission was free.Occupational health and safetyAccording to our occupational health and safety policy, weare committed to good planning and current improvementsof the work. Below, we have selected some activities toillustrate this.We focus on occupational health and safety. We wishthat our employees work safely and that attrition in theworkplace is prevented. Our goal is to reduce the numberof accidents at work by preventing that accidents occur.Petri & Haugsted as (2003), Wicotec A/S (2007), Per AarsleffA/S (2009) and Dan Jord A/S (2011) all hold an occupationalhealth and safety certificate.The occupational health and safety certificate commitsus to continuously improve the working environment, andwe strive to do so in many ways, e.g. in the above-mentionedframework agreement with Aarhus Vand A/S where manyof the improvement initiatives are related to occupationalhealth and safety. Generally, this project is promoting themotivation to solving the workday assignments becauseeveryone is heard and has a voice in the decision-makingprocess of how to improve one’s own working environment.So far, our efforts to prevent work accidents have resultedin a decreasing number of reportable accidents permillion work hours, and we are now below level comparedto the average of the industry (see graph).Another important focus area is planning of the work.We strive to plan all our assignments thoroughly and makesure that we have considered every aspect before execution.As a result, the working environment is improvedduring execution in relation to the strain on the employee.We are minimising attrition of the individual employee, andwe are avoiding quick fix solutions which often entail a riskof accidents.A cable laying project in North Jutland is an example ofhow we have developed a work method which minimisesboth attrition of our employees and the risk of accidents.A special trench and cable laying box allow us to carry outthe work with a minimum of heavy lifts, less manual workand significantly reduced stay in the excavations and thus areduced risk of accidents for our employees. Our employeeson the project, in close cooperation with our workshop anddepartment for mechanical design, are responsible for thedevelopment, and the result is a tool which improves productivityas well as the working environment.

management’s review