Annual Review
Shareholder information

Social responsibility
During 2010/2011, RIAS A/S has worked on creating the necessary internal processes and organisation regarding the company’s work on social
responsibility. The process of drawing up a complete strategy for social
responsibility that is to outline the direction and create continuity in the
company’s endeavours in the future is still taking place. Therefore, this description is a voluntary statement.
Social matters
The company considers the protection of secure social relations to be an
important element in the operation of a business. On a monthly basis, a
follow-up on absence due to sickness is carried out for the purpose of identifying signs of poor job satisfaction. In general, the company is continuously
working on securing the best possible working environment. Furthermore,
the company has a high awareness as to the health of the employees,
which has specifically led to the company contributing to a health insurance scheme.
Environment
The company is working determinedly to reduce the environmental impact
caused by the use of the company’s products. This takes place through
membership of the organisation Wuppi. The objective of Wuppi is to collect and dispose of PVC waste in a sustainable manner.
Moreover, the company is focused on its CO2 consumption. A project has
been initiated for the purpose of minimising the energy consumption. This
takes place through implementation of various energy-conserving measures in production and stock as well as in administration.
Human rights
The company typically enters into long-term supplier relations. Apart from
financial and quality-related evaluations, the overall evaluation of the individual supplier also contains an evaluation as to whether the supplier
exercises conventional social responsibility, including that the supplier does
not employ child labour etc.
Fight against corruption
The company has implemented a ”whistleblower” hotline, where the
employees have the possibility of informing impartial persons in a law firm
about violation of legislation, or suspicion thereof, including corruption or
cartel formation.

RIAS ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANNUAL REPORT 2010/11
8

