MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW
Shareholder Information and Corporate Governance

Statutory Statement on Corporate Social
Responsibility under section 99(a) and (b)
of the Danish Financial Statements Act
RIAS A/S wants to carry on its activities
in a responsible manner and continuously
works on creating a linkage between the
Company’s strategy and responsibility with
respect to the society in which the Company operates. For RIAS A/S, the work relating to corporate social responsibility is an
ongoing process, and in 2015/16 the Company continued to focus on such work and
to structure the required internal processes.
Based on an assessment of materiality, the
Company is working on areas such as staff,
environment, suppliers and anti-corruption.
On the next page, we describe the overall
policy for how the policy has been turned
into action and, where possible, what has
been achieved.
Social conditions
Securing good social conditions for its employees is an important element for the Company. Each month, we follow up on absencedue to illness to improve job satisfaction.Overall, the Company is working on currentlyensuring the best possible working environment.As in previous years, the Companyis very conscious about the healthof its employees, and during the yearexternal consultance has been evaluatingall the work stations.Working enviroment is also a part of yearlytalks with employees and in a survey relatedto employee satisfaction from which theresult is finalized end December. The companycooperate together with an employeegroup with employees from different departmentsand here socials aspects and workingenvironment are topics that are discussed.EnvironmentThe Company’s impact on the environmentis limited and mainly consists of PVC wastefrom products and CO2 consumption relatedto the Company’s buildings. TheCompany is making a targeted effort toreduce the environmental impact from PVCwaste, and the Company cooperates withthe Wuppi organisation which collects anddisposes of PVC waste in a sustainable way.RIAS’s share is included together with otherplastic distributors in Denmark. No specificfigures per distributor are available and,therefore, we are not able to state any result.Moreover, the Company has initiated aproject with a view to reducing the energyconsumption by introducing various costreduction measures both in warehouses,production and the administration. In 2015/16 the company invested in LED lightningwhich has been one of the reasons to a Kwhreduction with 10% compared to last year.Suppliers and human rightsThe Company typically enters into longtermsupplier relations, and the suppliersare primarily located in Europe. Apart fromfinancial and quality assessments, the overallassessment of a supplier also includes anassessment of whether the supplier showsgeneral social responsibility, including thatthe supplier does not use child labour etc. Allsuppliers are requested to fullfill a SupplierCompliance questionnaire once a yearwhich among other issues includes questionsin regards to human rights. In the fiscalyear only suppliers who fulfill the requirementshas been used.Anti-corruptionThe Company has implemented a whistleblowerhotline where employees have thepossibility of informing impartial personsin a law firm about breach or suspicion ofbreach of law, including corruption or cartelformation. The hotline has not receivedany calls in 2015/16. The managementhas also not via other ways been informedabout issues relating to corruption.All new employees must conduct an onlinetraining in Antitrust and Anti-corruptionwithin the first 3 months of their employmentand all employees are frequently beingupdated in Antitrust and Anti-compliance.In the fiscal year all new employees haveconducted the online training and the companyhas conducted two online compliancetraining sessions for all employeeswho could be disposed to corruption orantitrust issues in their daily work. Complianceis also a topic in all board meetings.ry or are aware of such issues.Policy on the composition of the Board ofDirectors and the Executive BoardThe members of the Board of Directors areelected based on their overall competences;however, it is also the aim of the Board ofDirectors to have a more equal gender compositionon the Board of Directors and tohave 15% female representation on theBoard within 4 years. Currently the boardof directors consists of 4 members, all ofwhom are men. The current board of directorsare on election every year but duringlast election no suitable women was foundand therefore no changes has been done.As the registered Executive Board consistsof only one member at present, no target forgender composition has been set for theExecutive Board.It is the staff policy of RIAS A/S that the ratioof women in other management bodiesis to be increased.RIAS A/S intends to take the following actionto obtain a more equal gender compositionin the other management bodies:• Work towards having minimum 25%female managers in the Company within four years. This is done by usingrecruiting companies to find the bestsuited candidates and make sure thatposible candidates also includes women.In 2015/16 one person has beenreplaced in the management team.A recruiting company was used in thisprocess and one man was hired. End2015/16 the ratio of women in the managementteam is 20% and therefore anincrease compared to last year (14,3%).One women has joined the middlemanagement team and therefore the ratiois 11,11 % compared to 0% last year.• Make the Company attractive to executivesof both genders, eg by ensuring astaff policy which promotes the careeropportunities of women and men.• Create a framework for the career developmentof the individual personthrough networks with executives in othercompanies.

RIAS ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16

23

