MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW
Shareholder Information and Corporate Governance

Statutory Statement on Corporate Social
Responsibility under section 99(a) and (b)
of the Danish Financial Statements Act
RIAS A/S wants to carry on its activities
in a responsible manner and continuously works on creating a linkage between
the Company’s strategy and responsibility with respect to the society in which
the Company operates. For RIAS A/S,
the work relating to corporate social responsibility is an ongoing process, and in
2014/15 the Company continued to focus
on such work and to structure the required
internal processes.
Based on an assessment of materiality,
the Company is working on areas such as
staff, environment, suppliers and anti-corruption. On the next page, we describe
the overall policy for how the policy has
been turned into action and, where possible, what has been achieved.

Social conditionsSecuring good social conditions for itsemployees is an important element forthe Company. Each month, we followup on absence due to illness to improvejob satisfaction. Overall, the Companyis working on currently ensuring the bestpossible working environment. As in previousyears, the Company is very consciousabout the health of its employees, whichhas resulted in a reduction of absence dueto illness of 0.2% compared to 2013/14.EnvironmentThe Company’s impact on the environmentis limited and mainly consists of PVCwaste from products and CO2 consumptionrelated to the Company’s buildings.The Company is making a targeted effortto reduce the environmental impact fromPVC waste, and the Company cooperateswith the Wuppi organisation which collectsand disposes of PVC waste in a sustainableway. RIAS’s share is included togetherwith other plastic distributors in Denmark.No specific figures per distributor areavailable and, therefore, we are not ableto state any result.Moreover, the Company has initiated aproject with a view to reducing the energyconsumption by introducing various costreduction measures both in warehouses,production and the administration. A totalmeasurement of the CO2 consumption hasnot yet been made and, therefore, we arenot able to state any result.Suppliers and human rightsThe Company typically enters into longtermsupplier relations, and the suppliersare primarily located in Europe. Apartfrom financial and quality assessments,the overall assessment of a supplier alsoincludes an assessment of whether the suppliershows general social responsibility,including that the supplier does not usechild labour etc. All suppliers are requestedto fullfill a Supplier Compliance questionnaireonce a year which among otherissues includes questions in regards to humanrights. In the fiscal year only supplierswho fulfill the requirements has been used.Anti-corruptionThe Company has implemented a whistleblowerhotline where employees have thepossibility of informing impartial personsin a law firm about breach or suspicion ofbreach of law, including corruption or cartelformation. The hotline has not receivedany calls in 2014/15. The managementhas also not via other ways been informedabout issues relating to corruption.All new employees must conduct an onlinetraining in Antitrust and Anti-corruptionwithin the first 3 months of their employmentand all employees are frequentlybeing updated in Antitrust and Anti-compliance.In the fiscal year all new employees haveconducted the online training and thecompany has conducted two Compliancesessions for employees who have contactwith customers, suppliers or in other waysin their daily work could be exposed tocorruption or antitrust issues.The Compliance sessions are giving employeesinstructions on how to react incase they are faced with issues like corruptionor bribery or are aware of suchissues.Policy on the composition of the Board ofDirectors and the Executive BoardThe members of the Board of Directors areelected based on their overall competences;however, it is also the aim of the Board ofDirectors to have a more equal gender compositionon the Board of Directors and tohave 15% female representation on theBoard within 4 years. Currently the boardof directors consists of 4 members, all ofwhom are men. The current board of directorshave not been on election this yearand therefore no changes has been done.As the registered Executive Board consistsof only one member at present, no target forgender composition has been set for theExecutive Board.It is the staff policy of RIAS A/S that the ratioof women in other management bodiesis to be increased.RIAS A/S intends to take the following actionto obtain a more equal gender compositionin the other management bodies:• Work towards having minimum 25%female managers in the Company within four years. In the fiscal year 3 newmembers of the management team hasbeen employed. The company has usedrecruiting companies to find the best suited candidates. The process has led to theemployment of 2 men and one woman.tember 2015, the ratio is 14.3% andthus represents an increase comparedto 2013/14.• Make the Company attractive to executivesof both geders, eg by ensuringa staff policy which promotes thecareer opportunities of women and men.• Create a framework for the career developmentof the individual person throughnetworks with executives in othercompanies.

RIAS ANNUAL REPORT 2014/15

23

