Annual review

Shareholders information and corporate governance

Legal account of social responsibility according to the annual financial accounts law §99aRIAS A/S wants to do business in a responsible way and continuously works to create coherence betweenthe strategy of the company and the responsibility towards the society with which the company is in contact.For RIAS A/S, the work on corporate social responsibility is a continuous process, and in 2012/2013,the company has continued to work on focusing the work and structuring the necessary internal processes.Based on an assessment of essentiality, the company is working on the areas employees, environment,supplier relations as well as anti-corruption. The following describes the general policy, how the policy hasbeen converted into action as well as what has been achieved, where possible.Social conditionsEnsuring good social conditions for employees is an important element for the company. On a monthlybasis, a follow-up on absence due to sickness is carried out for the purpose of improving job satisfaction. Ingeneral, the company is continuously working on securing the best possible working environment. Furthermore,the company has a high awareness as to the health of the employees, which has specifically led tothe company contributing to a health insurance scheme.EnvironmentThe company has a limited environmental impact, which is mainly caused by PVC waste from products andCO2 consumption related to the company’s buildings. The company is working determinedly to reduce theenvironmental impact of PVC waste, which entails cooperation with the organisation Wuppi, which collectsand disposes PVC waste in a sustainable manner.Furthermore, the company has initiated a project to reduce energy consumption by implementing variousenergy-conserving measures in warehouse, production as well as administration. A complete measurementof the CO2 consumption has not yet been established, which means that no results can be stated.Supplier and human rightsThe company typically enters into long-term supplier relations, and they are primarily located in Europe.Apart from financial and quality-related evaluations, the overall evaluation of the individual supplier alsocontains an evaluation as to whether the supplier exercises conventional social responsibility, including thatthe supplier does not employ child labour etc.Fight against corruptionThe company has implemented a ”whistleblower” hotline, where the employees have the possibility of informingimpartial persons in a law firm about violation of legislation, or suspicion thereof, including corruptionor cartel formation. There have been no approaches in 2012/13.

