C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y
Statement on corporate social responsibility
In accordance with Section 135 of the Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit
Institutions and Investment Firms, etc., the following statutory statement on corporate
social responsibility has been prepared.

Corporate social responsibility policy
Ringkjøbing Landbobank’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy is based on the
bank’s long-standing roots in the local communities in which the bank is represented.
The bank has a desire to be a responsible and value-creating bank, and the bank works
to create the best results for its shareholders, customers and employees, the respective
local communities, the surrounding environment and finally the bank itself as a financial
institution.
It is also the bank’s goal to be seen as a solid and attentive partner among all its stakeholders.
The bank’s CSR policy is divided to focus specifically on the four stakeholder groups:
customers, employees, the environment and the local community. The bank’s CSR
policy is available on the bank’s website at the address: www.landbobanken.dk/csr, and
furthermore this statement is also published at the same internet address.
It is advised further to the bank’s CSR policy that the bank has not prepared a specific
human rights policy or a specific policy on the climate. The bank supports the efforts by
the Danish government to put human rights and the climate high on the agenda, but
as a local and regional bank, the bank has not currently found it necessary to develop
separate policies for this.
The statement below on the bank’s activities in 2014 is targeted at the four stakeholder
groups.

Customers
During the year, the bank continued its work on development of its advisory service and
supply of products etc.
The work included:
• Continued focus on the bank’s concept within the area of advice on pensions, where
the bank’s advisers give the customer a general view of pension saving schemes and
insurance cover in the event of disablement and death.
• Further strengthening of the Private Banking advice, where the bank’s Private Banking
advisers provide specialised advice to customers with complex financial situations.
• Providing advice on conversion of capital pensions and mortgage loans.
• Implementation of a new user-friendly online bank solution for personal customers.
• Introduction of the possibility for both personal and business customers of using the
normal online bank on iPads.
• Focus on dissemination of the bank’s payment solution via mobile phone - called
"Swipp".
• Introduction of the possibility for personal customers to sign documents electronically.
• New payment cards issued as contactless cards.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014

PA G E 4 1

C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y
Expectations concerning the advisory service and supply of products etc. for 2015
include:
•

Continued development of the bank’s online banking solutions.

•

Extension of the possibility for personal customers to sign more documents electronically, and giving business customers the possibility of signing electronically.

•

Replacement of payment cards with contactless cards.

Employees
The following was implemented in 2014 in relation to the bank’s employees:
•

Appraisal interviews with all employees.

•

Training and certification of advisers in financial products to ensure their provision of
competent advice on such products in accordance with applicable rules. The required recertification was also made, and new employees completed a training and
certification programme if they had not already done so on the date of employment.

•

Completion of an internal training programme for the bank’s Private Banking advisers and others.

•

Continued training within advice on pensions.

•

In-service training for a large number of employees in provision of all-inclusive advice.

•

Employment of a total of 23 employees, including five new financial economists
and trainees. With a view to recruiting financial economists and trainees next year,
the bank held a Ringkjøbing Landbobank career day and visited the educational
institutions in the area in autumn 2014 to give the students in upper secondary
programmes in the bank’s local area information on a further education programme
with the bank, thus providing them with a basis on which to make a qualified career
choice.

•

Continued focus on the implementation of new routines and systems to increase the
efficiency of the bank’s administrative processes, which is a continuation of the previous in-house campaign “Overview means profit”, which ensures employees a better
overview of their own duties. In the bank’s experience, this ensures happier employees, less stress and better provision of advice to the bank’s customers.

•

Supported social activities in the bank, including financial support for the bank’s staff
association.

•

Signing a new local collective agreement for a term of three years with the bank’s
staff.

•

Establishment of a whistleblower scheme in accordance with applicable law.

In 2015, focus will be placed on inter alia the following in relation to the stakeholder
group “Employees”:
• Completion of training of the bank’s employees - both general initiatives for the
entire staff and specific initiatives for specific advisers and adviser groups.
• Continued focus on optimising and increasing the efficiency of the administrative
processes and routines, including optimal utilisation of digital possibilities.
• Election of employee members to the board of directors.
PA G E 4 2

RINGKJØBING LANDBOBANK A/S

The environment
As a bank as well as a workplace, the bank accepts shared responsibility for the environment.
In 2014 this included the following concerning the banking activities:
• Loans for wind turbine financing
• Financing of other energy-saving initiatives
• Partnership with interactive web portal to help the bank’s customers to identify
energy-saving initiatives in their homes.
As a workplace, the environmental initiatives included:
• The possibility of electronic signing of documents for personal customers was implemented during the year. The majority of personal customers’ agreements and documents are now signed electronically.
• In 2014 video conference equipment was installed in the bank’s branches for use
in connection with customer meetings where employees from the main office with
special investment and pension related competencies participate via the video conference equipment, internal meetings with participation of employees from different branches, training of the bank’s employees etc. The use of the video conference
equipment will reduce the need for employees to travel between the branches.
• Continue to focus on:
• Conversion of procedures to electronic case handling.
• Energy saving workstations via previously implemented initiatives in the form of
bigger more energy-efficient monitors (lower power consumption and monitors
switching to energy-saving mode when the user leaves the workstation), installation of two monitors at the workplace (which gives the staff the opportunity to
structure their work better on the monitors and helps to reduce the amount of
unnecessary printing), purchasing and use of power-saving printers, and finally via
a power-saving campaign (where as many electrical appliances as possible apart
from the computer monitors turn off automatically at the end of the working
day).
• Holding video conferences to the extent possible with the bank’s IT supplier, Bankdata, to reduce the employees’ travels to Bankdata’s departments in Silkeborg and
Fredericia,
• Car-sharing for and planning of training and meeting activities with physical attendance to reduce the associated travel as much as possible.
In all of the above initiatives, focus has been placed on reducing the bank’s environmental
impact, including reduction of CO2 emissions, lower power and paper consumption etc.
In 2015, the bank will continue to focus on reductions through the following initiatives:
• The bank will continue to finance renewable energy.
• It will become possible for the bank’s business customers to sign agreements and
documents electronically by using the NemID login. Agreements and documents
will thus be delivered to the customer’s internet-based electronic mailbox to further
reduce paper consumption.
• Use of the installed video conference equipment for customer meetings, internal
meetings, training etc.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014

PA G E 4 3

C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y
Local community
Given its position in the local area, the bank has a natural wish to support the area’s
development. Activities in 2014 included the following:
•

Total payment of DKK 155 million in corporation tax and payroll tax, of which DKK
140 million was corporation tax.

•

Allocations to charitable purposes from the following:
• Sdr. Lem Andelskasses Fond
• Tarm Banks Jubilæumsfond
• The bank’s profit distribution

•

Sponsorship agreements with more than 700 clubs and associations in the bank’s
local area. This includes sponsorships and subsidies for cultural activities, general and
elite sports in order to support the goal of putting the local community on the map.
Specific major activities during the year included support for:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

New grandstand and new stadium in Ringkøbing
Danish Civil Protection League - annual national rally 2014 in Ringkøbing
Danish Football Association (DBU) - men’s U16 national football team - friendly
match against the Czech Republic at Ringkøbing Stadium
DGI gymnastic displays in the spring in Ringkøbing and Skjern
DGI World Gymnastic Team in Skjern
Gospel festival in Hvide Sande
Handball Association of Jutland (JHF), district 3 - handball club of the year
Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality golf championships
“Kunsten inviterer indenfor” - invitation to visit local artists - open house event
New Year concert in Ringkøbing
Ringkøbing Fiord Jazz Festival at Stauning harbour
Ringkøbing and environs’ motoring club (ROMK) - rally show
School football in Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality
Wood sculpture festival in Ringkøbing
And many more

The bank will also continue to provide active support to the many clubs and associations
in the bank's local area in 2015.

Code of conduct
In December 2014, the bank’s board of directors adopted a code of conduct which
designates guidelines for the bank’s employees (including the board of directors and
the general management) concerning the conduct which is expected of them, i.e. the
conduct to stakeholders such as customers, suppliers and authorities. The object of the
code of conduct is to assist employees in their daily decisions and conduct. The code is
general and in no way exhaustive, but it provides examples of unacceptable behaviour,
where there is a particular risk for the bank and its employees. The code of conduct is
available on the bank’s website at the address: www.landbobanken.dk/policies.

PA G E 4 4

RINGKJØBING LANDBOBANK A/S

