C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y
Corporate social responsibility
Ringkjøbing Landbobank has always been strongly anchored throughout its long history
in the local communities where it is represented, and the bank has seen it as an entirely
natural part of its business base to support local development.
For many years, the bank has also, via management’s implementation of and attitude
to the recommendations for corporate governance, focused on those matters which
govern the interplay with the bank’s primary interested parties, namely its shareholders
and customers, its management and employees and the local areas in which the bank’s
branches are situated. As a result of the statutory requirement and developments in society in general, the bank’s management has now found it natural to formulate a policy in
the area. And the bank found it just as natural to base the policy on the bank’s existing
values and activities in the area.
Ringkjøbing Landbobank is a local and regional bank which, with due respect for social
responsibility, is operated on the basis of commercial objectives.
For the bank, it is a matter of being an active partner in the local and regional associations and sporting life in the towns and areas in which the bank’s branches are situated.
The bank does this via numerous sponsorships both at the elite level, but especially at
the broad general level so that as many people as possible beneﬁt from the support
which the bank provides to various associations every year.
The bank’s local and regional commitment is a cornerstone in our business philosophy
and one of the reasons why the bank has been able to retain its position as a local and
locally known partner to many of the area’s businesses and private families, but also for
the bank’s customers throughout Denmark.
With respect to its employees, the bank also takes its social responsibility seriously.
Initiatives within employee skills development and training as well as activities which
promote health and wellbeing are some of the reasons why Ringkjøbing Landbobank
is considered an attractive place to work. Over the years, the bank has thus had many
employees who have celebrated both their twenty-ﬁfth and their fortieth anniversaries
with the bank.
Ringkjøbing Landbobank is also focused on the environment. The bank thus tries to limit
the energy consumption associated with its operations, and there is focus on environmentally correct recycling of the waste products which the bank’s operations generate.
A common feature of the bank’s initiatives within the area of social responsibility is that
they must help to emphasise Ringkjøbing Landbobank’s position as an ethical and sustainable company to the bank’s interested parties – to its shareholders, customers and
employees and to the surrounding world.
The bank’s website www.landbobanken.dk provides a more detailed account of the
bank’s social responsibility, including the policies in the area.

ANNUAL REPORT 2010

Årsrapport 2010-UK.indd 31

PA G E 3 1

01-02-2011 07:45:01

