CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
– statement of corporate governance and corporate social responsibility

THE STOCK EXCHANGE’S RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE



CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTFOR 2015/16Roblon considers corporate social responsibility (CSR) to bea natural part of the company’s business principles and acknowledgesa responsibility for the society of which we are alla part.A number of key CSR policies have been established withinthe company that are described in more detail in this section.In the autumn the company developed and introduced a newstrategy for the period up to 2020. One of the areas in whichthere will be more effort in 2016/17 is the development ofRoblon’s code of conduct, and consequently there will be increasedfocus and work on corporate social responsibility.Working environmentBoth management and employees consider a good workingenvironment at Roblon to be an important prerequisite for thecompany appearing professional and principled in relation tocustomers and other partners. There is a safety organisationbased at each of Roblon’s three locations; each one is structuredas stipulated in the relevant rules of the Danish WorkingEnvironment Act.The company realises its policy by:having a safety organisation and systems in place to ensurethe documentation, implementation and maintenanceof the working environment system.having co-determinant groups meet at least once a year todiscuss the working environment.regularly following up on absence due to illness and thusidentifying any absence relating to working environment.the company informing employees of results in this particulararea.In 2015/16 the company maintained and improved a safe andsound working environment. In the course of the financialyear there has been greater focus on reducing occupationalaccidents by means of additional information and campaignsetc. The company has reduced its number of notifiable accidentsrecorded from nine in 2014/15 to two in 2015/16.Mandatory company-funded health insurance was set up in2015/16, and a number of internal training sessions havebeen held on how to prevent back pain and injury.Finally, the company has invested in lifting equipment in productionto reduce physical stress in selected work processes.Environment and climateRoblon wishes to be perceived as a green company committedto bringing about regular eco-friendly development throughits activities with due regard to the state of natural resources,legal requirements and other relevant provisions applicableto the company. The company’s production facilities in Gærumare ISO 14001 certified.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

MANAGEMENT REPORT

17

The company realises its policy by:

recording and systematically following up the number of
ongoing suggestions for quality improvements.

logging the energy consumption of electricity and gas to
ensure production consumption is controlled efficiently.
carrying out regular risk assessments and follow-up of
waste in production.
assessing the environmental consequences to the company and customers when using new materials.
informing employees or other people who work on behalf
of Roblon of the company’s environmental policy and environmental management system.
maintaining its focus on sustainability and green conversion by recycling waste.
following a sustainability approach in the acquisition of
manufacturing equipment.
Over the course of the financial year, Roblon has continued
to work on preventing and reducing the company’s external
environmental impact; one measure has been to ensure that
new investments are energy efficient.
One of the ways in which the company tried to reduce waste
in 2016 was by purchasing raw yarn in customer-specific
lengths. Glass yarn offcuts are sold for reuse, which plays a
part in reducing the amount of waste and protecting the environment. The company’s energy consumption depends on its
orders, increasing as production volumes and the number of
hours increase. Together with an external energy consultant,
Roblon regularly looks for potential ways to optimise energysaving process equipment.
Quality
Roblon endeavours to come across as a well-reputed, development-oriented and reliable supplier whose services continually meet our customers’ expectations. The company undertakes to always comply with relevant requirements set by our
partners, including customers and authorities. Although only
the company’s production facilities in Gærum are ISO 9001
certified, the entire organisation works to the procedures and
standards established pursuant to ISO 9001.
The company realises its policy by:
performing ad hoc measurements of compliance with delivery times to the customers.
processing complaints efficiently and logging them as they
occur.

18

MANAGEMENT REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

carrying out customer satisfaction analyses.
setting requirements for new suppliers by requiring ISO
certification or approval via supplier audits and follow-up
on supplier deviations.
systematically checking goods going into production.
2015/16 saw the organisation continue with activities targeted
at boosting customer satisfaction through rapid response
times, confidence-building dialogue and being clearer about
Roblon’s capacity, as well as meeting delivery times and other
contractual obligations.
Roblon’s quality department focuses at all times on measures
to reduce complaints. In 2016 the company introduced internal process and product audits to carry out risk assessments
and to optimise production processes and the customer’s
experience of both new and old products. Roblon’s quality
department conducts regular supplier audits and evaluations
to ensure that Roblon’s suppliers live up to the desired quality. Every year the company’s employees complete a training
session on quality, the environment and working environment
understanding. Thanks to greater focus in this area in 2016,
the company has reduced the number of complaints recorded
by 8.5%: from 95 in 2014/15 to 87 in 2015/16.

GENDER COMPOSITION OF MANAGEMENT
Roblon’s policy is to support diversity among its employees,
including via an approximately equal gender distribution
making a positive contribution to the working environment
and enhancing the company’s performance and competitiveness. The aim of Roblon’s policy has also been to attract and
retain highly qualified and motivated employees. The aim for
employment and recruitment is for there to be both male and
female candidates.
On 11 March 2016 the Danish Business Authority released
its guidelines on “Target figures, policies and reporting on
the gender composition of management”. Based on this, the
Board of Directors has decided to set a new target for the underrepresented gender of 25%, as long as four Board members are elected by the Annual General Meeting.
The Board consists of a total of six members, two of which
are elected by the employees. The latter members represent
each gender. The members elected by the Annual General
Meeting consist of three members of one gender and one
member of the other gender, equivalent to 75% and 25%.

Senior management/Executive Management consists exclusively of men. In 2014 a target of 25% was set. In conjunction
with the recruitment of new staff during the year, the company has been very aware of the aim to employ the underrepresented gender. There were not, however, enough qualified candidates applying for the vacant management positions
that needed to be filled during the year.

We will endeavour to increase the proportion of the underrepresented gender in senior management/Executive Management, but qualifications will always take precedence over
the gender composition of the workforce. It is essential that
management positions are still filled by employees with the
right qualifications. We will therefore encourage candidates of
the underrepresented gender to apply when we are recruiting
for the Board of Directors and management positions so that
there is always at least one candidate from the underrepresented gender.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

MANAGEMENT REPORT

19

