2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

SUSTAINABILITY

The world’s tallest wooden house “Treet” in Bergen, Norway with ROCKWOOL facade insulation
contributing to the apartments being built according to passive house requirements.
30
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

Sustainable by nature
IN ALL BUSINESS AREAS OF THE
ROCKWOOL GROUP WE AIM TO
OPTIMISE THE ENVIRONMENTAL,
SOCIAL AND ETHICAL ASPECTS OF
OUR OPERATIONS. WE CARE FOR
OUR CUSTOMERS’ ASSETS, THEIR
ENVIRONMENT AND WELL-BEING.

Our ambition is to work as smart and as sustainably as
possible, a goal we share with our suppliers and employees
across every part of our value chain. To this end, we
constantly refine our production processes, as well as our
policies, codes of conduct, guidelines and management
systems.

With GRODAN horticultural substrates applied in the
most state-of-the-art closed growing systems you can
grow 1 kg of tomatoes using only 4 litres of water instead
of up to 60 litres of water in soil with drip irrigation.
Traditional 250 mm ROCKWOOL attic insulation –
manufactured and installed in an un-insulated attic in a
Danish climate and used over 50 years – will save 100
times more primary energy than it has consumed (See
illustration below).

Within the ROCKWOOL Group, we continuously strive to
improve our practices in order to reduce any negative
impact our production process might have on the
environment. We invest in developing new technologies to
improve our own energy efficiency and environmental
performance.

ENERGY SAVINGS OVER 50 YEARS

Our aim to contribute positively to society is formalised in
the Group’s Social Charter. Read more:
> www.rockwool.com/social+charter

Energy savings after 10 years

Energy savings after 5 years

Pages 30-39 constitute the company’s reporting in accordance
with the Danish Financial Statements Act, Art. 99a on social

Read more about the positive impact of ROCKWOOL
products on the environment on page 14.

responsibility.

After 6-12 months the amount
of energy saved is equal to
the amount of energy used

Protecting your environment
Our most significant impact on the environment is through
the application of our range of energy efficient products.
The ROCKWOOL products provide a portfolio of sustainable
solutions that have a positive impact on many of the global
environmental issues facing our planet today, for example:

Amount of energy used to produce
a 205 mm attic insulation slab in a
Danish climate

Over 50 years this product
will save 100 times more
primary energy than it
has consumed.

31
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

Reducing energy consumption and emissions
The production of stone wool products requires an initial
use of energy for e.g. the melting of raw materials. In
terms of CO2, for instance, the ratio today is clearly positive
with one production unit of CO2 to more than a hundred
saved, on average, in the lifetime of the installed product.
In 2012 the ROCKWOOL Group set an ambitious goal of a
15% improvement in our energy and CO2- efficiency by
2015. The goal was based primarily on implementing
specific technical measures in the melting process. We
experienced several challenges within the production
process which prevented us from achieving our stated goal
for energy consumption and CO2 emissions. In the
ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report covering 2015, to
be released later this year, we will present our
performance in greater detail and share the outlook for
improvements in the future.
In 2016 we will continue to place emphasis on our energy
efficiency programme and targets. In recent years we have
been concentrating on the Asian and Chinese factories that
we acquired in 2012. Our upgrades have resulted in
increased energy efficiency although, due to their relative
size compared to European factories, the improvements at
these factories have been unable to make a significant
mark on overall Group performance.
We report and monitor CO2 emissions in compliance with
the scoping requirements defined by the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Standard (www.ghgprotocol.org). In addition, our
European factories comply with the EU ETS regulation;
consequently our CO2 data is externally verified.

GRODAN RECYCLING

1m3

3x SUSTAINABLE
Sustainable manufacturing

BASALT

Sustainable growing
Sustainable end-of-life solutions

8m3
BUILDING
BRICKS

350,000kg
TOMATOES INCLUDING
AVERAGE WATER SAVINGS
OF 15,750 m3

The ROCKWOOL Group recycles old mineral wool. One
example is the recycling of GRODAN stone wool growing
media. The GRODAN business already facilitates the
recycling of 100% of its sold products in Belgium, the
Netherlands, France and Canada, and is aiming to achieve
this for all of its global sales in the future.

50m3
GRODAN STONE WOOL
SUBSTRATE

1 m3 of basalt produces 50 m3 of stone wool - sufficient to
grow e.g., 350,000 kg of tomatoes in a sustainable manner.
After use, the stone wool created from the 1 m3 of basalt
can be used again as raw material to create 8 m3 of bricks.
At the same time this saves the use of clay or sand which
would otherwise be used as raw material for brick
manufacturing.
32

ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

Read more in the latest Sustainability Report
> www.rockwool.com/sustainability+reports

degree of recycling secondary raw materials, as well as
developing the new technology even further for the future.

Upgraded abatement systems
During 2015 we upgraded the abatement systems for
several of our production lines to reduce emissions even
further. These measures also ensure that all relevant
factories meet the requirements of new legislation for the
glass industry, which includes glass and stone wool
production (based on BAT - Best Available Technology), due
to come into force in 2016 in the majority of EU member
countries.

Embedding environmental management in our factories
In order to establish continuous improvement in our
environmental performance, the ROCKWOOL Group has an
environmental management system for every factory. Our
environmental department regularly carries out audits and,
in addition to this, several factories have chosen to have
their management systems certified by a third party – such
as environmental management (OHSAS 18001) or energy
management (ISO 50001), as well as quality management
(ISO 9001).

Recycling and minimising waste
For more than 30 years recycling has been an important
focus area for the ROCKWOOL Group. We recycle our own
waste from the majority of our operations, mostly on-site
but also externally. In addition, the nature of the
ROCKWOOL production process offers excellent opportunity
for recycling end-of-life materials from other industries.
This is a win-win situation as it both solves a waste
disposal problem and cuts down on the use of virgin raw
materials.
With the introduction of our state-of-the-art melting
technology, we are able to use secondary raw materials
from other industries directly in the melting process. This
represents a step forward as the traditional technology
requires waste materials to be processed into briquettes
before they can be used in the cupola furnace. However, the
new technology has also posed some initial challenges in
terms of the number of different materials we are able to
recycle. In general in 2015 we continued to sustain a high

In 2015 our factory in Wales added an energy management
certification (ISO 50001) to their existing third party
certification. Out of our 28 factories, 25 have implemented
at least one management system certified by a third party.

equipment for repair, maintenance, operations or suppliers
with whom we spend more than EUR 100,000 annually - are
obliged to sign this document.
Topics covered in the Code include human rights such as
equal opportunities, abolition of child labour, trade union
recognition and fair employment terms. To stimulate our
suppliers to improve their own environmental performance,
suppliers are obliged to appoint an Environmental Officer
as well. We expect our supplier companies to have an
Environmental Management System in place with specific
three year plans and expect that all new machinery go
through an environmental risk assessment before coming
into operation. Likewise, our suppliers must ensure their
own suppliers meet the same requirements.

Our environmental policy can be viewed at:
> www.rockwool.com/environmental+policy
A sustainable supply chain
Working closely with our suppliers is an essential part of
sustainability in the ROCKWOOL Group. As a globally active
company, it is crucial to have the right policies in place to
ensure that our suppliers respect human rights and work
together with us on environmental excellence.
Our Code of Conduct for suppliers
In order to ensure that our suppliers work together with us
on sustainability, we ask them to sign a Code of Conduct.
All our significant suppliers - whether of raw materials and
33

ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

STONE WOOL TO THE BENEFIT OF REFUGEE CAMPS
In 2015, the ROCKWOOL Group signed a 3 year
agreement to collaborate with DanChurchAid - an
experienced organisation in refugee aid.
As the ROCKWOOL Group is world leader in stone
wool and its properties, the intention is to utilise the
core values of fire safety, durability, energy efficiency
and acoustics in a variety of applications. These
include insulating against heat, moisture or cold, as a
medium for growing crops, as a protection against
flooding, and other new solutions as they arise.

In autumn 2015, ROCKWOOL Group R&D employees visited a
refugee camp in Kenya with DanChurchAid. The two
organisations will now be working together to improve
conditions for refugees in disaster areas around the world.

For DanChurchAid, the partnership is an opportunity
to develop innovative technology and practical
solutions based on stone wool for the benefit of the
world’s refugees. Proposals are likely to involve the
local workforce and raw materials – not only from
within the relevant refugee camps but also in the
wider vicinity.
A steering committee with members from both
parties will be responsible for the project
management of jointly developed activity plans.
“This is innovation in a nutshell: using stone wool in
new ways within a challenging context that benefits
people in distress. On the basis of our Kenyan refugee
camp field trip, together we will identify areas where
we can offer practical support and develop viable
solutions,” explains Dorte Gram, Innovation Manager
at ROCKWOOL International A/S

34
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

Mobilising our employees to drive business success
THE ORGANISATIONAL ASPECT OF
THE GROUP’S TRANSFORMATION
PROCESS HAS BEEN APPROACHED
WITH CARE, RIGOUR AND
CROSS-FUNCTIONAL ALIGNMENT
TO DEVELOP AN EFFECTIVE AND
SUSTAINABLE STRUCTURE.
The aim is to reduce hierarchical layers, eliminate
overlapping activities and establish a more globally driven
model for most of the business support functions. This will
create a flatter and more agile organisation, empowering
employees to take better and quicker decisions.

THE MAIN DESIGN CRITERIA FOR THE NEW
ORGANISATION ARE:
Clear separation between business areas
and Group functions
Reduction of hierarchical layers
Clear accountability and mandates
Focus on professionalism and best practice
sharing

Enablers for the Business Transformation Programme
Employee engagement
Implementing change requires close follow up of employee
engagement. Therefore more frequent interactions,
compared to the normal annual RockPulse employee
engagement survey, were introduced for office staff during
2015 and these will be continued in 2016.
For the first time all factory employees worldwide were
invited to give their feedback through the RockPulse
survey. This will provide important insight for the company
and therefore further the development of our organisation.
Performance management
Aligning individual and organisational objectives is a key
element in effectively delivering our strategic goals. The
ROCKWOOL Group’s performance management process
has matured over the past five years. We have now
achieved an integrated approach linking performance with
remuneration and talent management. Our globally
harmonised process supports focused goal setting to
sustain the ambitions of the Business Transformation
Programme.
Learning and development
With the overall ambition of continuous improvement, it is
critical to create a culture of continuous learning.
Therefore a new plan to drive change and improvements is
being developed. We will introduce a blended learning
approach in order to improve efficiency, reduce cost and
spend less time travelling. The Business Transformation
Programme creates excellent opportunities for project

LEARN MORE ABOUT WHAT IT IS LIKE TO
WORK IN THE ROCKWOOL GROUP
> www.rockwool.com/career/our+stories

EMPLOYEES BY REGION
North America,
Asia and others

Western Europe
20%

EMPLOYEES OF

52

29%

51%

NATIONALITIES
GLOBALLY

Eastern Europe
including Russia

10,601
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES

35
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

assignments and cross-functional collaboration which is
good for ‘on the job’ learning.

worldwide – for instance there are some 21 different
nationalities working in the German operations alone.

Complete overview with data transparency
A key success factor in the organisational design process
has been to ensure that appropriate data is available
empowering people to take the right decisions at all levels.
The new integrated HR system has already in the first year
since implementation proven the value of visibility of the
local and global organisational data supplying employees
and managers with a self-service approach for selected HR
process steps and much more. Over 90% of our office staff
is actively using the system.

We strive to stimulate diversity in the management teams,
as well as in Group functions. In 2013, we set the target of
15%-30% female executives on our management teams by
2017. We are still at the lower end of this range with a
score of 16% compared to 17% the year before. At the very
top, the level is higher - with the new team operational as
of 1 February 2016, Group Management moves to a
proportion of 22% compared to 14% in 2014.

In addition to increased transparency in reporting on
diversity, we have made efforts to support equal
opportunities further by launching a new internal career
website in 2015. By being more transparent about new
career opportunities we avoid bypassing relevant
candidates for vacant positions. We are continuously
developing our annual HR processes with increased focus
on systematic succession management and talent
development supporting career ambitions.

Diversity in our business matters
Having a diverse workforce is valuable to our business
performance. It fosters creativity and innovation, as well as
a dynamic culture across the global setup. We take great
pride in offering equal opportunities and making it possible
for employees to move between business units and
countries. We also encourage and guide managers in
practical ways to bring employees from different parts of
the Group to their teams.
Our job rotation ambitions are part of the Group’s
performance management process, including global
succession planning. We are now well placed to match our
employees who are interested in working abroad with the
available positions around the world.
Being a global company our workforce includes people of
52 different nationalities spread across our business

36
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

In order to develop our understanding of the stumbling
blocks for future diversity at top management level the
Group entered into cooperation with a major consultancy
firm about a ‘women in leadership’ survey. The results of
the survey will come out in 2016 and be further evaluated.

Working with human rights
The ROCKWOOL Group supports the UN universal human
rights principles which define a number of rights including
freedom of association, non-discrimination and the
abolition of child and forced labour.

With regard to female members elected to the Board by the
General Assembly, the current aim is at least one member
by 2017; however, if the opportunity arises, and a suitable
candidate becomes available, a higher target may be
pursued.

Our suppliers are also obliged to follow our principles by
signing a Code of Conduct.

Read more about our Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Policy on the global website
> www.rockwool.com/diversity+management
The above constitutes the company’s reporting in accordance
with the Danish Financial Statements Act, Art. 99b.

GENDER: 19% FEMALE EMPLOYEES
- 81% MALE EMPLOYEES

The Group is against any kind of discrimination due to age,
gender, race, colour, religion, political opinion, social
origin, or any other human rights aspects. Any incident of
discrimination, and action taken against it, must be
reported to the management responsible. In 2015, no
incidents of discrimination were filed.
Another right we take seriously is the right to exercise
freedom of association and collective bargaining. In 2015,
the Group has not identified any operations in which this
right has been violated or been at significant risk. The
Group generally has constructive working relations with
the unions and also hosts a European Forum where
employee representatives from major operations in Europe
are in regular dialogue with members of Group
Management on strategic cross-border issues.
We believe child labour must be abolished. Fortunately, the
Group’s operations are not at significant risk of using child
labour and no incidents of child labour have been
identified. Additionally, the ROCKWOOL Group does not use
forced or compulsory labour.

In general, no grievances relating to human rights were
filed in 2015. Compliance with human rights is monitored
through our HR organisation, our general management
processes, our risk management process, random checks
by Group auditing, consultation with employee
representatives and our ‘whistleblower’ system.
Learn more about business ethics at the ROCKWOOL Group
website:
> www.rockwool.com/business+ethics
A safe place to work
The nature of our work, and the environment our
employees work in, can expose them to the risk of harm.
Mitigating and managing these risks, so that people return
home safely every day, is our paramount concern.
Any injury is unacceptable and, in 2015, an important step
for the ROCKWOOL Group has been to expand the scope of
safety to include all employees also outside factory
operations, i.e. while travelling, driving, visiting customers/
building sites, in offices, etc.
Furthermore, we invested in, and did the first pilot roll-out
of, new health and safety systems with the aim of further
managing accidents in our manufacturing environment.
Our new systems also facilitate ways to learn from
accidents which do occur, so that we can address the root
causes quickly and efficiently. Also in 2015, focus has been
on integrating the acquired non-stone wool factories into
our safety programme ‘One Group One Safety’.

37
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

The continued effort to improve the safety of our staff is led
from the top of the organisation, supported by human
resources and safety experts across the Group.
The Frequency Rate of Accidents for operations is on a
continuously stable low level, which we try to drive even
lower – our ultimate target being zero accidents. In the
pursuit of this goal, we have a ‘good catches’ reporting
system in place where employees can report a potential
risk so we can act upon it before any accidents occur.

FREQUENCY OF ACCIDENTS
Frequency of accidents, production staff (per million working hours)

6
5
4
3
2
1
0

2011

2012

2013*

2014*

2015*

* including contractors and, as of 2014, also comprising our non-stone wool
companies

38
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

A TRUE GLOBAL EMPLOYEE
Project Manager Osama Hamza is the epitome of a
true global ROCKWOOL employee. With a passion for
travelling the world, a highly developed sense of
managing cultural differences, and an ambition to
deliver excellence wherever his skills are required,
Osama Hamza has left a positive imprint at every
ROCKWOOL facility he has worked at – counting six
different countries to date.

in diverse places each time. On top of that it has also
been a great opportunity for me to grow both
professionally and personally through the different job
opportunities within the organisation,” says Osama
Hamza.
Last year Osama was selected by Danish newspaper
Berlingske Business among 100 young talents in
Danish companies, as part of the yearly Berlingske
Talent100 issue.

With a global mind-set that goes beyond daily work and on
top of his professional achievement at the ROCKWOOL
Group, Osama has used his professional skills for volunteer
work. In 2010 he took a few months’ leave and flew to Haiti
as a volunteer for Engineers Without Borders. Here he led
a transitional shelter project (construction of temporary
wooden huts to replace tents and tarpaulins – for families
who had lost everything they owned in the earthquake).
When Osama arrived at Haiti seven shelters were being
built per week. However he set up logistics, a supply chain
and training so smart that, by the time he left, the number
had risen to an impressive 47 new shelters a week.

After graduating with a BSc. in Civil Engineering in
2007 and working a few years in Hedehusene,
Denmark, the first ROCKWOOL destination abroad
was Canada where Osama assumed the role of site
manager for a new building project at our plant in
Toronto. In the following years he carried out major
renovation and new construction projects at our
factories in Russia, Czech Republic, Croatia and
China. In the latter, he was stationed with his family
for two years and, in addition to the construction
projects in China, he was also responsible for
operating and optimising our local purchasing
department in Beijing.
Today Osama is based in Denmark – but this is not
necessarily his final destination and he is still open to
new challenges abroad.
“Working at a global organisation like the ROCKWOOL
Group has made it possible for me to work with
colleagues, suppliers, contractors and authorities in
very different parts of the word and experience the
personal and managerial challenge of doing projects
39
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

The ROCKWOOL Foundation
THE FOUNDATION IS THE LARGEST
SINGLE SHAREHOLDER OF
ROCKWOOL INTERNATIONAL A/S
WITH 23% OF THE SHARES.

It is a charitable organisation established in 1981 by six
members of the Kähler family who each contributed 25% of
their own shares.The Foundation has two primary
objectives: to deliver information about society through
reliable independent research and to develop interventions
that address the challenges in society.
The research is conducted both by the ROCKWOOL
Foundation’s Research Unit and specialised external
researchers. The practical interventions are managed by
the ROCKWOOL Foundation’s Interventions Unit.

Addressing the sustainability of the welfare society, has
been at the core of the Foundation’s work since its
establishment. Currently work is focused on five areas:
immigration and integration; tax and undeclared work;
time use and working hours; marginalised groups and risk
behaviour and a special area of emphasis: disconnected
youths.
One example of the ROCKWOOL Foundation’s diverse
projects in 2015 is described on the following page.
Read more about the ROCKWOOL Foundation at:
> www.rockwoolfonden.dk

23%
23% OF THE ROCKWOOL GROUP DIVIDEND GOES TO THE
FOUNDATION’S BENEVOLENT ACTIVITIES.

THE ROCKWOOL FOUNDATION
RESEARCH UNIT IS ONE OF THE
MOST TRUSTED INSTITUTIONS
FOR SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC
STUDY IN DENMARK

€6.3 mill
IN 2015, THE FOUNDATION MADE DONATIONS OF
MORE THAN EUR 6.3 MILLION.

40
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

2015 AT A GLANCE | STRATEGY AND GOALS | PERFORMANCE | SUSTAINABILITY | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION

NExTWORK
Youth unemployment is a serious structural and personal
challenge throughout most of Europe. In Denmark there
are 37,000-39,000 young people aged 16-29 who are in
neither education nor employment. This is often due to
complex social or personal problems.
In 2015 the ROCKWOOL Foundation launched a new
initiative, NExTWORK aimed at bringing together
unemployed young people, local companies and the
municipality in a joined effort to establish internships
for these vulnerable youth.
The thought behind this approach is to establish a
network where potential workplaces get to meet the
young unemployed in person. Thereby they get a firsthand impression of the young person’s story and
driving force in relation to getting a job. The other way
around the young people meet companies willing to
support them in preparing for a job.
A small test pilot project is being tried out in Roskilde,
a municipality with 85,000 inhabitants, and the initial
experiences are positive. 20 young people and 20
companies are participating. The young unemployed
are offered support and internships for up to 3
months in a company matching their interests and
goals. Every 3 months the young people can rotate to
another company to gain new experiences in different
settings. Both the youth and the companies
participate in and support each other in ongoing peer
network meetings, facilitated by the municipality.
41
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2015

