Insulation - the obvious
way to reduce energy bills
Better insulation of buildings and industrial processes is one

Using only 15 kWh/m2 annually for heating, these houses are

of the most obvious choices for energy security, reducing

more than twice as energy efficient as the most stringent

energy expenditure while also mitigating emissions of CO2 and

national energy efficiency requirements for new buildings.

other air pollutants. This can be done in a highly cost-effective
manner, creating green jobs and improving the indoor climate

Energy use in emerging countries: a growing challenge

and quality of life for millions of people around the world.

Worldwide, most new buildings are being constructed in
emerging economies. The Rockwool Group has therefore

Our buildings account for some 40% of energy consumption in

recently established production in China, Thailand and India,

Europe and North America. Even in an emerging economy like

and is expanding sales activities in countries like Brazil. We

China, the energy consumption for buildings will soon reach

also offer our expertise to regulators and decision-makers

35% as millions of people urbanise, requiring new homes,

throughout the world. Better energy efficiency will improve

workplaces and leisure facilities. Often these buildings are

indoor comfort at an affordable price for millions of people

erected without adequate insulation – if any – instead they

– and help to prevent further CO2-induced environmental

may make excessive use of heating and air conditioning which

harm.

requires a lot of energy.
Existing buildings: the real challenge
Europe champions zero-energy buildings

By far the greatest challenge in the Rockwool Group’s large

By the end of 2018, all new public buildings in the EU must be

mature markets of Europe and North America is the old stock

constructed as nearly zero-energy buildings, and by the close

– millions of buildings remain poorly insulated.

of 2020, private homes follow suit. A passive house combined
with renewable energy resources will fulfil this requirement.

According to the Energy Efficiency Action Plan Taskforce of the
Construction Sector, the renovation rate – in Europe currently
1.2%-1.4% per year – would need to be increased by a factor
of two to three times in the decades up to 2050 in order to
reach the short and long term EU targets of reducing CO2

Positive net carbon footprint
Our new carbon footprint analysis
reveals that, during the lifetime of
all the Rockwool insulation being
sold in one year, more than 4,000
million tonnes of CO2 emissions
will be saved from buildings and
industrial processes worldwide.
Insulation of industrial processes and
technical installations contributes to
significantly higher savings than what
our previous analysis showed. This
segment stands for the majority of the
total savings.

emissions by 80%-95% by 2050 as compared to 1990 levels.
Germany, for instance, has successfully boosted energy
modernisation projects through its public funding scheme;
this allocates higher subsidies and/or low interest loans the
more the energy efficiency of a building is improved.
Russia – aiming to improve energy efficiency by 40% before
2020 – is now insulating thousands of buildings. This will
improve living conditions for many Russians and enable
exports of energy that would otherwise be wasted due to lack
of insulation.
Industrial insulation: the potential is huge
The Rockwool Group also holds the important key to another
neglected area: the potential for energy and CO2 efficiency
improvements in hot industrial processes. Here, temperatures
often reach 200° to 600°C, yet many pipes, boilers and tanks
remain poorly insulated. It is not unusual to see hot processes
which are insulated with only one tenth of the thickness of that
in a roof of a modern home. And this despite the fact that the

4
Annual Report 2010 I ROCKWOOL INTERNATIONAL A/S

The future is here
Today it is possible to construct a new
building so well insulated and energy
efficient that it can easily produce more
energy than it uses, just by adding
a small solar panel or other means
of sustainable energy. In 2010 the
Rockwool Group inaugurated Denmark’s
first PassivePlus house. The Christensen
family, who owns the house, has
eliminated household energy bills, and
will thus recoup their limited additional
investment in a far superior home.

5

Forgotten potential
Despite operating temperatures of
200o-600oC, hot pipes, boilers and
tanks in power plants and process
industries are often insufficiently
insulated.
With the industrial sector
consuming approximately a
quarter of all our energy, this
represents a massive missed
opportunity to achieve energy
savings.

difference in internal and external temperature in a hot

other process industries. It is the co-founder and chair of the

industrial process is often ten times larger than inside versus

newly established European Industrial Insulation Foundation

outside a home. Clearly vast amounts of energy, money and

www.eiif.org, aiming to help harvest the large potential for

CO2 can be saved.

energy efficiency in hot industrial processes.

The Rockwool Group is the world’s leading supplier of stone

A typical Rockwool product used to insulate a building saves

wool insulation to power plants, petro-chemical industries and

approximately 100 times the energy invested in its lifecycle.
The energy saving and CO2 balances generally become positive
within the first 6 months. Insulation products for industrial

Among the Top 20
Nordic climate reporters
In 2010 the Rockwool Group was
among the 20 leading Nordic climate
reporters in the Carbon Disclosure
Project, scoring 78 out of 100 points.
In 2009 the Group’s production units
recorded Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2
emissions of 1.3 million tonnes. At
present the Rockwool Group does not
need to buy CO2 allowances in order to
fulfil its EU ETS commitments.

6
Annual Report 2010 I ROCKWOOL INTERNATIONAL A/S

processes can have an even more positive energy and CO2
balance. Over its lifetime, this insulation can, on average, save
more than 20,000 times the CO2 invested in its manufacture
- with the CO2 balance already positive after less than one day!
For more information about
the sustainability profile of the Rockwool Group, please visit:
www.rockwool.com/environment/environmental+reports
www.rockwool.com/energy+efficiency
Read the paper ‘The Fundamental Importance of Buildings in
Future EU Energy Saving Policies’ from the Energy Efficiency
Action Plan Taskforce of the Construction Sector here:
www.ace-cae.eu/public/contents/getdocument/content_id/868

Committed
to society
The Corporate Social Responsibility approach of the Rockwool
Group reflects the desire to contribute to positive social
development as stated in the Group’s Social Charter. A
testament to this is the substantial energy and CO2 emission
reductions and the safer constructions which are at the core
of our insulation solutions. However our ambitions cover all
aspects of interaction with global and local society.
Conducting our business according to the Rockwool Group
corporate values is the framework within which we conform to
modern standards for responsible and reliable business
conduct, as well as corporate social responsibility. These
Rockwool values - honesty, responsibility, efficiency, passion
and entrepreneurship - are described further on our
corporate website.
The Rockwool Group publishes a full progress report on
Corporate Social Responsibility according to the Danish
Financial Statements Act, art. 99a. The report gives an
overview of the company’s performance within the central
areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and
anti-corruption.
During 2010, the Rockwool Group’s code of conduct for
suppliers was added to the standard contract. Throughout the
organisation this means that most new contracts will include
confirmation that the supplier is living up to our code of
conduct. The Group’s code of conduct for suppliers covers all
relevant aspects related to compliance with UN Human Rights
including precautions against forced labour, child labour,
discrimination, employee rights, anti corruption etc.

The substantial energy and CO2
emission savings, which are at the
core of our insulation solutions,
bear testament to the Rockwool
Group’s desire to contribute to
positive social development.

The Group is increasing its business activities in emerging
markets, at the same time strengthening the auditing of
suppliers. If business conditions in a country is of special
concern, the suppliers under contract with the Group Sourcing
and Procurement organisation are being audited twice
annually – once by the Group and then by an approved external
quality audit company.
The Corporate Social Responsibility report
www.rockwool.com/about+the+group/social+responsibility/
csr+reports
For the Rockwool Group’s Social Charter, see
www.rockwool.com/about+the+group/social+responsibility/
social+charter

7

The Rockwool Foundation
Income spent on
research and interventions

The Rockwool Foundation was established as a non-profit

undeclared work, work and the welfare state, families and

organisation by six members of the Kähler family in 1981.

children.

Tom Kähler, former CEO and now Chairman of the Board of
Rockwool International A/S, has been the Chairman since

Social entrepreneurship and the principle of self help support

1991.

are key elements in the Foundation’s interventions. These are
aimed at achieving lasting and sustainable improvements

The Foundation is the biggest shareholder of Rockwool

within three selected programme areas: food security and

International A/S with 23% of the shares. This means that

poverty alleviation, strengthening social engagement, and

almost a quarter of the Group’s dividend is spent on social

international peace building. Individuals and communities,

research and society related interventions.

mainly in Africa and the Middle East, benefit from these
programmes. In a fourth programme, the focus is on improved

The research is mainly focused on socio-economic issues and

health for Danish children.

the current problems faced by contemporary society. The aim
is to improve the knowledge base and quality of public debate

Read more about the Rockwool Foundation (in English) at

so that politicians can make informed decisions. Research is

www.rockwoolfonden.dk

carried out in four broad areas: migration and integration,

w
Healthy schoolchildren
The Rockwool Foundation started
the project “HealthySchoolNetwork”
in 2008 to support improvements in
the health of Danish schoolchildren.
The project provides information,
pedometers and ongoing evaluation
of pupils’ fitness score, waist
measurement, jump height and Body
Mass Index, with the aim of inspiring
the children to a healthier lifestyle.
By end 2010, some 189 schools and
approximately 80,000 pupils had
joined the project.

8
Annual Report 2010 I ROCKWOOL INTERNATIONAL A/S

Village banking
Since 2009 the Rockwool Foundation has supported the creation
of ’village banks’ in Malawi, allowing 3,000 poor families in 46
villages to save up, as well as to borrow, money. Due to irregular
incomes in the rural areas of Malawi, there is a huge need to be
able to save up for minor investments, plus the need to have a
reserve for difficult times. The Rockwool Foundation’s Research
Unit collaborates with, among others, Centre for the Studies of
African Economies at Oxford University, to evaluate the project and
to explore which local measures are most likely to have a positive
impact on poverty alleviation.

9

