CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Sustainability - an inherent part of our daily activities
Countries, companies and individuals
around the world are faced with a
range of challenges that need to be
tackled in both the long and the short
term. Resource strains, climate
change, urbanisation and energy
dependency are some of the issues
that will rapidly change the way we
need to re-organise our society.
Such issues also challenge the entire ROCKWOOL
workforce in the way we think about how our products and
solutions help reduce CO2 emissions, fight energy poverty
and help nation states become less dependent on energy
imports. This is the valid situation in 2014, and it will
continue to be so in the years to come.

Environment

Fire

Energy

Society

Even though stone wool is just one of the materials used in
the building envelope, it is a key element with an excellent
sustainability profile!
Health

Pages 21-31 constitute the company’s reporting in accordance with the
Danish Financial Statements Act, Art. 99a.

The ROCKWOOL Group’s view on sustainability is outlined in a dedicated
area of our website where you also find the most recent sustainability reports:
> www.rockwool.com/sustainability

21
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Sustainability - an inherent part of our daily activities
Environment

Special focus areas in 2014

The greatest positive impact the ROCKWOOL Group has on
the environment is through its products. However, as a
company with focus on sustainability, we are also keen to
improve our own practices at every available opportunity.
We are therefore always striving to limit the negative
impact we might have on the environment through our
production process. Our main focus points are energy
efficiency, reducing CO2 and other gaseous emissions,
minimising waste and limiting the consumption of water.

Promoting energy efficiency and combating climate change:
The ROCKWOOL Group is dedicated to expanding the use of
insulation to create a more energy efficient society. Among
our major initiatives in 2014 were targeted communications
to help ensure that the EU 2030 Energy & Climate plan is
as ambitious as possible. Insulation is one of the notable
industrial products with a positive net carbon footprint and
thus offers an obvious solution to cutting CO2 emissions.
Over its lifetime, ROCKWOOL thermal insulation saves far
more CO2 than is emitted during production.

Systems and processes
The ROCKWOOL Group is a signatory to the International
Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Business Charter for
Sustainable Development and is thereby committed to
improve environmental management in accordance with
the Charter’s 16 principles. In addition to adopting a
precautionary approach, our commitment includes having
management practices to effect environmental
improvement, to measure performance and to report this
performance openly to internal and external stakeholders.
With the commitment of all the subsidiary companies, the
ROCKWOOL Group has drawn up an environment policy.

During the course of 50 years in the Danish climate, a
traditional 250 mm ROCKWOOL insulation product installed
in a previously uninsulated loft will save over 128 times
more primary energy and 162 times more CO2 than has

been used and emitted during its production, transport and
disposal. In this example, the energy balance will be
positive just five months after installation and the CO2
balance will be positive after only four months. CO2
reductions are even higher for insulation used to protect
hot industrial processes, for instance in power plants and
petro-chemical industries, where temperatures can be
anything upwards from 200°C or even exceed 600°C. On
average, ROCKWOOL insulation for industrial processes
and technical installations will save 20,000 times more CO2
than was emitted during production.
Improving energy and CO2 efficiency in our production:
The most sustainable energy is the energy we do not use.
This situation not only accounts for the positive energy
impact of our products, but also for the energy
consumption we are able to save in our operations.

Lifetime savings

The policy is steered towards reducing the environmental
impact of our operations and can be viewed at
> www.rockwool.com/environmental+policy

Energy

+1

-128

CO2

+1

-162

Used
Saved

22
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Melt energy, the energy used in connection with the
furnace, is the biggest single item on our energy
consumption list and therefore at the top of the agenda for
reducing our energy consumption. We are constantly
looking at technical possibilities to improve the energy
efficiency of our processes and techniques and are
currently introducing a new, more efficient melting
technology within the Group.

The Group has set itself a target of reducing energy
consumption and CO2 emissions by 15% by 2015 compared
to 2009. In 2013, the reduction amounted to 6.8% for energy
and 7.7% for CO2. The 2014 improvement figures will be
published in the Sustainability Report which comes out in
the second quarter of 2015.

Volcanic stone

1500˚C
lava

As part of the current upgrade projects with our new
melting technology in Denmark and Poland, we are also
implementing optimal heat recovery for the excess heat
from the melting process. With the new melting furnaces
energy recovery is optimised and we expect to be able to
supply more heat. The excess heat is utilised in the local
district heating system supplying domestic houses or used
to heat up our factory building.

Recycling and re-using waste from other industries:
The ROCKWOOL Group has been dedicated to recycling for
more than 30 years. Today we actually recycle three times
more waste materials from other industries than we
deposit ourselves. We have invested in processes that
improve our waste management and thus reduce the
amount of waste that goes to landfill.
The high temperature of our production process is ideal for
recycling and means that we are able to recycle materials

Melting oven

How to make stone wool?
Longitudinal cut
(Cut waste is recycled)

Spinning

Transversal cut
(Cut waste is recycled)
Stacking
and packing

Wool collecting
Curing oven
Swing

We report and monitor CO2 emissions in compliance with
the scoping requirements defined by the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Standard (www.ghgprotocol.org). In addition, our
European factories need to comply with the EU-ETS
regulation; consequently, our CO2 data is externally
verified.

Pressing

Every day, ROCKWOOL specialists ‘tame the volcano’, a process in which
volcanic basalt rock, slag, and residual products from other industries, as
well as recycled stone material, are melted at 1,500°C.
The liquid rock mass (the lava) is spun into stone wool fibres as it cools.
Binding agents and water-repellent oil are added during the spinning
process then the material is cured in an oven, a process that stabilises
the thermosetting resin. Finally, the stone wool is processed into the
desired product. Off-cuts are usually recycled directly on the site.

Transportation

23
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

from other industries that would otherwise end up as
waste.

50001), as well as quality management (ISO 9001) (2013:
17).

Re-using end-of-life stone wool:
A large proportion of the waste generated in modern
society emanates from the building industry. As the energy
renovation of buildings intensifies – particularly in Europe –
it becomes increasingly important to offer return schemes
for refurbished and demolished material. We have several
recycling schemes in place to re-process used ROCKWOOL
and ROCKFON stone wool from renovation projects.

In 2014, special attention was devoted to implementing the
ISO 50001 management system (a management system for
improving and formalising energy efficiency). Five factories
in Denmark and Germany are certified to this standard.
With regard to the certification against ISO 14001, we have
increased this to 16 certified factories (2013: 12).

The ROCKWOOL Group’s ROCKCYCLE scheme (waste
collection service) has proved capable of handling very
large renovation projects where the focus is on
environmental protection and sustainability. The scheme
enables efficient recycling of old mineral wool, which
otherwise would have been sent to landfill. In particular, it
has played a key role in several major flat roof renovation
projects, a prime example being the renovation of an
80,000 m² roof at the Mercedes-Benz Global Logistics
Centre in Germany.
Certification of our management systems:
Our Group Safety, Health & Environment Management
Systems Manual details that each subsidiary or factory
must have an environmental management system covering
responsibilities and control procedures. Several have
chosen to have their management systems certified by a
third party. In total 21 factories have now individually
implemented certified management systems for
environmental management (ISO 14001), health and safety
management (OHSAS 18001) and energy management (ISO

Supply chain management
and human rights

With regard to the environmental side of business, we have
adopted the ICC “Business Charter for Sustainable
Development – Principles for Environmental Management”.
This identifies responsibilities, requires an Environmental
Officer to be appointed, expects companies to have an
Environmental Management System with specific three
year plans in place, and specifies that all new machinery is
subject to an environmental risk assessment before
coming into operation. In turn, our suppliers are required
to ensure their own suppliers meet the same standards.

As a globally active company with many suppliers, it is
essential to have policies in place that formalise our
respect for human rights - both for our own company and
in dealing with suppliers. We already have several policies
in place that cover our ambitions with regard to human
rights. During the course of 2014 we renewed our
procurement policy, providing greater opportunity to
engage with our suppliers on social and ethical topics.

In the course of 2014 we implemented a renewed
procurement policy which dictates that high risk suppliers
will be audited against the Code of Conduct. The risk is
determined by several factors - the spend we have with the
supplier, the geographical location of the supplier, and
whether or not the supplier has signed the Code of
Conduct. When choosing new suppliers, or renewing
business with existing ones, the criteria we use is clear,
transparent and well documented. Sustainability and
environmental aspects, costs, quality and reliability of
supply are all important to our decision process.

Systems and processes
In 2013, we finalised our Code of Conduct for Suppliers,
which needs to be signed by all our major suppliers suppliers of raw materials and equipment for repair,
maintenance, operations etc. plus suppliers with whom we
spend more than EUR 100,000. Our Code of Conduct
addresses topics such as equal opportunities, trade union
recognition and fair employment terms. Further, our
suppliers are not allowed to use child labour in any form.

With regard to respecting human rights, the ROCKWOOL
Group supports the UN universal human rights principles
which define a number of rights including freedom of
association, non-discrimination and the abolition of child
and forced labour. The Group’s Social Charter supports our
aim to contribute positively to society, to the individual’s
health and wellbeing, and to instil responsible, honest and
humane behaviour among employees, in line with our
Group values.

24
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Special focus areas in 2014
Supply chain management:
Currently 75% of our key suppliers, in terms of spend as
contracted by Group Sourcing & Procurement, signed the
Code of Conduct. During 2015 we aim to increase this
percentage. In 2014, we carried out desk research and site
visits as part of our supplier evaluations.
Ethics and good conduct:
As an international reputable business, we aim to adopt the
highest standards of ethics and good conduct for our
employees and in our various business transactions.
Please refer to the chapter ‘People drive business’.

Evaluating human rights compliance:
In 2014, no grievances relating to human rights were filed.
Compliance with human rights is monitored through our
HR organisation, our general management systems, our
risk management process, random checks by Group
auditing, consultation with employee representatives and
our ‘whistleblower’ scheme.
Non-discrimination:
The Group is against any kind of discrimination due to age,
gender, race, colour, religion, political opinion, social
origin, or any other aspect of human rights. We aim to
strengthen internal diversity in these areas. Any incident of
discrimination, and action taken against it, must be

More than Rock. In 2014, the R&D department decided to test refugee
tents made out of stone wool at the Roskilde Rock festival to see how the
key properties of durability, noise reduction, thermal resistance and fire
safety would withstand the pressure of a busy festival venue with
thousands of people. The idea is to develop a durable and affordable
solution to help refugees living in camps due to regional conflicts.

25
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

reported to the management responsible. In 2014, no
incidents of discrimination were filed.
Freedom of association:
The right to exercise freedom of association and collective
bargaining is fundamental. The Group has not identified any
operations in which this right has been violated or been at
significant risk in 2014. The Group values constructive
working relations with the unions and hosts a European
Forum where employee representatives from major
operations in Europe are in regular dialogue with members
of Group Management on strategic cross-border issues.
When signing our Code of Conduct, suppliers are obliged to
respect human rights. In 2014, our evaluation of significant
suppliers did not reveal any cases where the right to exercise
freedom of association and collective bargaining was violated
or at significant risk.

Preventing forced or compulsory labour:
The ROCKWOOL Group does not use forced or compulsory
labour. When signing our Code of Conduct, our suppliers
are also obliged to respect the basic human right to
freedom from forced labour. Our 2014 evaluation of
significant suppliers did not reveal any cases where the use
of forced or compulsory labour had been violated or was at
significant risk.

Abolition of child labour:
We believe child labour must be abolished and particular
care must be taken that young workers under the age of 18,
such as apprentices, are not exposed to hazardous work.
The Group’s operations are not at significant risk of using
child labour and no incidents of child labour have been
identified, nor have any cases of child labour been
registered in our formal evaluations of significant
suppliers.

26
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

People drive business

35

The success of the ROCKWOOL Group is strongly linked to the
constant development of our organisational capability. The
strategic ambition of the Group shapes our People Agenda
and development priorities. Three key themes form the basis
for the focus areas which are particularly important for the
entire Group:
Shared culture and values;
Organisational agility and performance;
Attract, engage and retain a talented, committed,
and diverse workforce.

11,031

88%

In 2014, we had a net increase
of 469 employees, mainly
thanks to acquisitions and
growth. Today we represent a
total of 11,031 employees

Once again 88% ‘favourable
scores’ on sustainable
engagement - significantly
higher than the norm for
high performance companies
we benchmark against

Colleagues
operate in
more than 35 countries
across the globe

32.3 million
Research spending of EUR 32.3
million in 2014

Employees by region
North America,
Asia and others

21.4%

49.0%
Eastern Europe
including Russia

Western Europe

29.6%

27
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

People drive business
The ROCKWOOL Way - special focus on business
ethics in 2014
The ROCKWOOL Group has a strong company culture, with
a working environment based on trust and empowerment,
embracing the values of entrepreneurship, passion,
efficiency, honesty and responsibility. These values help
secure the ethical running of our business according to the
expectations of society, the authorities and ourselves.
To enhance the Group’s proper business conduct, our
business ethics policy is in place to guide employees. Being
present in many parts of the world, and growing in both
size and complexity, there is an increasing need to ensure
that all employees are fully aware of this policy and abide
by its ethical code of practice.

Operational excellence
Our ROCKWOOL operational excellence programme is
making good progress. Employees are encouraged through
training to be self-driven, taking ownership responsibility
for their work – which helps them to identify any problem,
understand it, offer solutions and make decisions. A
specially trained team of facilitators is assisting this
transformation, based on LEAN methodology. The goal
during 2015 is to initiate this programme in all our
remaining manufacturing organisations in Europe – we are
currently half way – and then continue outside Europe.
More than 2,500 operators have already been trained, as
well as the business and factory management teams of the

10 production units where the programme is already in
progress. The number of improvement proposals
generated so far is approximately 12,000. With an
implementation rate typically between 80% and 95%, we
have made more than 10,000 improvements so far.

Trust and empowerment are drivers across the ROCKWOOL Group.

In 2014, we intensified our e-learning training to keep
employees informed about appropriate business ethics. All
management team personnel in our subsidiaries and in
Group functions participated in a mandatory e-learning
process. This was followed by an intensive debriefing
session for participants addressing ways to manage the
dilemmas faced in their specific business environment
while still being in harmony with Group policy. The maxim
is “We never compromise with our business ethics”. Over
the next year, local management will be continuing this
process, targeting all white collar employees to ensure
common understanding and commitment in their
respective businesses.
Read more about business ethics at the ROCKWOOL Group:
> www.rockwool.com/business+ethics

28
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A new member of the family
The acquisition of Chicago Metallic in October
2013 was followed by a thorough integration plan.
Eleven areas - covering all business processes
from operations to HR – have been unified with the
new organisation effective as from 1 January 2015.
A key element in this integration procedure is
respect for the people of the acquired organisation
and our ability to understand their position in the
whole process.
As Martha Jahn Martin, Head of HR at Chicago
Metallic, says: “Getting used to being part of a
much larger company has been tough, but what
I’ve found is that my fellow colleagues at the
ROCKWOOL Group are always there to help point
me in the right direction. The new set-up is a
powerful one. It provides opportunities for not only
our sales to continue to grow, but our employees
as well.”

"I was one of the family owners, and selling the business
was an extremely tough decision for us to make. Fortunately
it’s in the very fabric of our once ‘two separate companies’ to
promote ethical and moral business in our dealings around
the world. I believe this to be the very fabric that has helped
bring our two companies close together in a relatively short
time. Although I’m no longer an owner working in my family
business, I am proud to say that today I am an engaged
employee working in the ROCKWOOL Group."
Martha Jahn Martin,
Head of HR in Chicago Metallic

Good planning and cooperation, professionalism
and flexibility have made this a most efficient and
successful integration of a new company into the
ROCKWOOL Group. The current employee
engagement survey shows a high level of
understanding and commitment to the
ROCKWOOL Way among our new colleagues.

29
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Sustainable engagement
We are now in the second year of our employee
engagement survey “RockPulse” and have seen a
consistently high response rate of 91% in 2013 and 89% in
2014. We have been able to identify positive trends and also
areas on which we need more focus.
The growth and success of our Group requires a very high
level of sustainable engagement, led by the way we operate
through ‘Trust and Empowerment’. For ‘sustainable
engagement’, the result was 88% ‘favourable scores’ - the
same high score as in 2013, and significantly higher than
the norm for high performance companies we benchmark
against.
Customer focus is another area which we are continuing to
strengthen. It is encouraging to note ongoing
improvements in our employees’ appreciation of the
requirements and expectations of customers. In this, and
other respects, personal development is a strong
motivational factor. We focus on intercultural competences
to support cooperation between business units, countries
and Group functions – this helps to get things done quickly
and efficiently.
As the ROCKWOOL Group has a strong focus on
environmental responsibility, it is very encouraging to note
that our employees recognise and value efforts in this area.

Diversity
The ROCKWOOL Group recognises its talented, committed
and diverse workforce as a key competitive advantage. Our
business success is a reflection of highly engaged and
skilled individuals. Our leadership principles and bold
ambitions to foster trust and empowerment help us to
create an environment in which all individuals can realise
their maximum potential.
It is our stated ambition to stimulate diversity in our
management teams, as well as in Group functions. A target
of at least 15% female presence in our management teams
by 2017 was established end 2013. By 31 December 2014,
the actual gender diversity in management teams
throughout the international organisation was an average
of 83% male and 17% female which is an improvement of 1
percentage point compared to the year before.
Our talent and succession management process supports
both cross-cultural and cross-functional diversity by
increased visibility and focus on talent development.
Awareness is raised through the RockPulse survey, where
all members of office staff are asked, among other things,
whether or not they believe that management supports
equal career opportunities for all employees. The 2014
survey shows a 2 percentage point improvement in this
area over 2013.

With regard to female members elected to the Board by the
General Assembly the current aim is at least 1 by 2017;
however, if the opportunity arises, and a suitable candidate
becomes available, a higher target may be pursued.
The above constitutes the company’s reporting in accordance with the
Danish Financial Statements Act, Art. 99b.

Protecting our people
For a company in the industrial sector such as the
ROCKWOOL Group, working in a safe manner is of the
utmost importance. We have seen good progress over the
years in health and safety performance, but naturally the
topic remains on our agenda.
We have implemented our ‘One Group – One Safety’
programme - the philosophy being that people should go
home after work as healthy as when they arrived. It is our
ambition to create a safe and healthy workplace with no
accidents. Several schemes are in place to create a safer
working environment such as our ‘Golden Safety Rules’.
Every employee is required to work in accordance with
these rules.
We continuously seek to improve our operations. This
involves analysing business processes and continuously
optimising them in order to avoid unnecessary steps while,
at the same time, ensuring quality. At factory level, health

30
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Key indicators
2010

2011

2012

2013

Training days per employee, office staff

3.3

3.2

3.9

3.1

3.5

Training days per employee, production staff

2.4

3.1

3.2

2.4

3.7

Patents granted in the year

66

121

218

161

98

28.2

28.6

30.3

29.7

32.3

8.2

4.2

3.7

4.5*

3.5*

Research and development costs (EUR million)
Frequency of accidents, production staff (per million working hours)

2014

* including contractors, and as of 2014 also comprising our non-mineral wool companies

and safety performance is monitored regularly by
management through dedicated dashboards and progress
meetings. Every factory has a Health & Safety Manager
who reports directly to the top governance body of that
plant.

Over the past five years, the frequency rate of accidents
has dramatically reduced. Once again, a decrease was
observed in 2014, to a frequency rate of 3.5 per million
working hours.

We believe the recipe for achieving even better safety is:
Strong management commitment including hands-on
participation in safety walkabouts and safety meetings
Allocation of additional resources for training and safety
measures where indicated
Zero tolerance of unsafe behaviour – including the use of
disciplinary action when needed
High standards of housekeeping that support our
dedicated safety culture.
Every accident is one too many. The ROCKWOOL Group has
set ambitious goals for substantially reducing the number
of accidents at our factories. In 2012, the goal for 2017 was
set at a maximum of 2 accidents per million working hours.

31
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The ROCKWOOL Foundation
The Foundation’s research unit
is one of the

most trusted

research institutions on social and
economic research in Denmark

23%

Almost
of the Group’s dividend
goes to the Foundation's
benevolent activities

In 2014, the Foundation
made donations
of more
than EUR
million

6.7

Research Unit
Work and the welfare state

Migration and integration

Undeclared work and
the law of the land

Families, children
and health

Practical Interventions
Food security and poverty
alleviation

Peace-building

Social capacity building

Health interventions

32
ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

CONTENTS | PROFILE | EDITORIAL | KEY EVENTS | ROCKWOOL STORY | PERFORMANCE | CSR | RISK MANAGEMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | SHARES | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The ROCKWOOL Foundation
The Foundation is the largest single shareholder of
ROCKWOOL International A/S with approximately 23% of
the shares.
The ROCKWOOL Foundation is a charitable organisation
established in 1981 by six members of the Kähler family
who each contributed with 25% of their own shares.
The Foundation has two primary objectives: to deliver facts
about society through independent reliable research, and
to develop interventions that address challenges in society.
The research is conducted by the ROCKWOOL Foundation
Research Unit and also by specialised external
researchers. Currently the research is primarily focused on
work and the welfare state, migration and integration,
undeclared work and the law of the land, as well as
families, children and health.

An example of work performed by the ROCKWOOL
Foundation in 2014:

Promoting agricultural development
in support of peace
Food insecurity and violent conflict are often interlinked.
Conflict can have a negative impact on food security, for
example by preventing normal farming and herding
activities. However food insecurity in itself may be a factor
in the outbreak of conflicts, or in sustaining or extending
them. It is said, that ‘if you go to bed hungry, you wake up
angry’. The root cause of conflict is often to be found in

competition over land and water, the basic elements of food
production. Such competition may become violent when
there are also tribal or ethnic tensions involved.
In 2014, the ROCKWOOL Foundation launched an innovative
project to test whether the RIPAT model (Rural Initiatives
for Participatory Agricultural Transformation) can be used
as a peace-building tool. The project is being piloted in
selected agro-pastoralist communities in northern Kenya
that have been troubled by inter-tribal conflicts. It aims to
integrate livelihood development and peace-building using
a low-tech, sustainable, community-driven approach. The
RIPAT model has been developed by the ROCKWOOL
Foundation and the Tanzanian NGO RECODA.

The practical interventions address societal challenges and
are currently structured under the programme areas of
food security, poverty alleviation and peace-building, social
capacity building and health. The interventions benefit
people and their environments in both developing and
developed countries.
Read more about the ROCKWOOL Foundation at:
> www.rockwoolfoundation.org
Morans (young Maasai warriors) herd and protect their livestock and
safeguard the community; they are often armed with illegal firearms, and
may become involved in major conflict with other tribes, as well as in
cattle theft. These Morans are now participating in a conflict
transformation programme which includes learning new livestock and
farming methods to increase their range of livelihood choices.

ROCKWOOL International A/S I Annual Report 2014

33

