Corporate Social Responsibility
For many years, the Rockwool Group has been known
for its strong social commitment. The company’s social
vision and values are stated in its Social Charter. The
close involvement of the Rockwool Foundation in scientific
analysis related to the current problems faced by modern
society emphasizes that social responsibility is a central
part of the Rockwool culture.
The Rockwool Group has always been managed on the
basis of strong values stimulating trustworthy and decent
behaviour of the company and its employees. This has
over the years resulted in the development of a number of
specific and operational policies, manuals and instructions
as well as implementation of monitoring and auditing
processes of some aspects.
Good performance
For 2009, the Rockwool Group publishes a mandatory
report on Corporate Social Responsibility, according to the
Danish Financial Statements Act, Art. 99a. The report
gives an overview of the company’s performance within the
four central areas of corporate social responsibility (CSR):
Human rights, labour standards, environment and anticorruption.
The general conclusion of the report is that the Rockwool
Group is performing well in all the addressed areas
and that it is maintaining the necessary internal and
external dialogue on these issues in the Group’s dayto-day operations. The Group supports the United

20

Annual Report 2009 I ROCKWOOL INTERNATIONAL A/S

Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
International Chamber of Commerce’s Business Charter
for Sustainable Development and has in other areas
developed its own policies and procedures which assure
implementation and adherence to good corporate social
responsibility throughout the company.
Continues to monitor initiatives
In the environmental area in particular, the Group has long
experience and over the years has developed an extensive
system for managing and auditing production processes
and assuring that all environmental regulations and
standards are met or exceeded. The company was among
the front-runners in the industry when 15 years ago it
published its first dedicated environmental report covering
all factories.
In the CSR report, the Rockwool Group states that the
company considers its CSR performance satisfactory and
intends to maintain this position. The Group will continue
to monitor its performance to ensure that initiatives meet
internal and external requirements.

The complete report is available at
www.rockwool.com/about+the+group/
social+responsibility/csr+reports
For the Rockwool Group’s Social Charter, see
www.rockwool.com/about+the+group/
social+responsibility/social+charter

The Rockwool Foundation has in cooperation with Cross Cultures Project Association (CCPA) developed a project that through football
seeks to promote peaceful coexistence between various groups in Lebanon and to stimulate the development of an active civil society.
To make the football clubs sustainable, it is vital to include the parents and the local community in the activities.

THE ROCKWOOL FOUNDATION
The Rockwool Foundation was founded in 1981 as a
non-profit organisation with the objective of supporting
scientific, humanitarian, artistic and social activities, as
well as contributing to improving environmental conditions
and development in society.
The Foundation was established by six members of the
Kähler family. Tom Kähler, former CEO and now Chairman
of the Board of Rockwool International A/S, has been the
Chairman since 1991, when he succeeded his father Claus
Kähler, also previously CEO and Chairman of the Board of
Rockwool International A/S.
Dividends spent on social projects and research
The Rockwool Foundation is the biggest shareholder of
Rockwool International A/S with 23% of the shares. This
means that almost one fourth of the dividend paid out by
the Rockwool Group is spent on projects and research in
Denmark and other countries.
The research funded by the Rockwool Foundation is mainly
focused on socio-economic issues and current problems
faced by modern western society. The aim is to improve
the knowledge base and the quality of the public debate

and to provide a good basis for decisions to be taken
by politicians. Research is carried out by The Rockwool
Foundation Research Unit (established in 1987) and by
external researchers and experts in four broad areas:
migration and integration, undeclared work, work and the
welfare state, and families and children. The independent
research attracts much media attention. Research is carried
out mainly in Denmark but also in other European countries
such as Germany, Poland and Italy.
Social entrepreneurship and the principle of help for self
help are key elements in the Foundation’s projects aimed
at achieving lasting and sustainable improvements in
poor as well as rich societies within selected programme
areas: food security and poverty alleviation, social capacity
building, and international peace building. Individuals and
communities in mainly Africa and the Middle East benefit
from these programmes. In a fourth programme, the focus
is on improved health for Danish children.

Read more about the Rockwool Foundation in its annual report
2009 which – together with much more information – can be found
in English at
www.rockwoolfonden.dk

Annual Report 2009 I ROCKWOOL INTERNATIONAL A/S

21

