SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

Royal Unibrew is aware of its social and environmentalresponsibility and has for several years continuouslyaddressed a number of the related areas. In 2008 moresystematic social responsibility work was initiated inseveral areas.During 2009 Royal Unibrew’s Corporate SocialResponsibility reporting will be further developedA number of initiatives in 2008In 2008 a new corporate Code of Ethics was formulated,and in continuation of this a common quality, food safetyand environmental policy was prepared.The main elements of the policy are:Royal Unibrew’s products and production should meet
customer requirements and international standards forquality, food safety, environment, health & safety andhuman rights;continued improvements should be made in the qualityand environmental area with efforts directed at creatingsafe workplaces;Royal Unibrew should be engaged in open dialogue
on its social and environmental responsibility;there should be focus on the efforts made by Royal
Unibrew suppliers to improve quality and theenvironment as well as ethical standards.Furthermore, in 2008 a number of specific policies wereprepared and a number of activities were launched in theindividual areas.Human RightsRoyal Unibrew does not tolerate discrimination of itsemployees due to gender, race or religion. Child labourand slave labour are not permitted, and Royal Unibrewseeks to ensure that partners and suppliers live up to thispolicy. In the supply area, the preparation of guidelinesfor assessing suppliers on quality, environment and ethicshas been initiated.Royal Unibrew employees have the right to unioniseand the right to strike in accordance with the legislationin the countries in which Royal Unibrew has activities.Employees and health & safetyEvery year, Royal Unibrew carries out a job satisfactionsurvey among its employees. The objective is to improvethe workplace by mutual effort. Accident frequency andabsence due to accidents are recorded at all groupbreweries and reporting is made. The total number ofaccidents at work, and thus the accident frequency, forthe entire Group was higher in 2008 than in 2007. In 2008Royal Unibrew intensified the initiatives aimed at reducingthe accident frequency, including specific measures,training and attitude management. The developmentwill be monitored closely over the future period.Food safetyA project has been launched comprising the implementationof a management system for food safety for the entireGroup. This means that all Royal Unibrew breweries willbe certified under the international standard for foodsafety, ISO22000, by the end of 2009.Responsible alcohol consumptionRoyal Unibrew takes responsibility for its communicationon beer consumption in relation to advertising,sponsorships and campaigns, especially with respectto minors. Royal Unibrew complies with the relevantlegislation in the countries in which the Company’sproducts are marketed, and Royal Unibrew participatesactively in Brewers of Europe’s work with responsiblealcohol consumption.Competition
Royal Unibrew’s business practice should always complyfully with competition regulation irrespective of the placeof operation.BriberyRoyal Unibrew’s employees may neither pay nor acceptany bribe or inappropriate payment for the sake of theirown or the Company’s gain. If employees are involved inbribery, disciplinary action will be taken against them.All Royal Unibrew production units have strong focus onthe environmental impacts of the Company’s production.

ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS

Our efforts are still primarily targeted at:Reduction of energy consumptionReduction of water consumptionReduction of water dischargeThe Danish breweries have environmental certificationunder the ISO14001 environmental standard as well asEMAS registration, and a special environmental reportis prepared for production in Denmark.EnergyEnergy consumption per unit produced for the Group asa whole decreased by 5.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007.This was particularly caused by efficiency enhancementat the Polish breweries, in Lithuania and in Denmark.In the long term, it is expected that the productionintegrations will contribute towards more efficientproduction and thus lower energy consumption.Water consumption and waste waterWater consumption per unit produced for the Group asa whole increased by 0.4% from 2007, due to, amongother things, water consumption per unit produced atthe brewery in Aarhus increasing at the end of 2008 as aresult of reduced production leading up to the productionstop. Waste water discharge for the Group, however,decreased by 1.7% in 2008 due to reduced discharge fromthe breweries in Faxe and Odense.ResourcesAn important means to improving our environmentalresults is the minimisation of all types of waste ofresources. Wastage and shrinkage are currently measured,eg in production, and improvement projects are launchedon a current basis. Moreover, efforts are directed atincreasing the recycling of water and waste. To the extentpossible, water is recycled in places where water qualityis not so crucial. Mask, which is a residual product frommalt, is sold to local farmers as animal feed. Solid waste,such as glass, is returned to the manufacturer, who usesthe returned glass for new bottles.At some Royal Unibrew breweries, capture plants forcarbon dioxide have been installed to capture the carbondioxide released in the brewing process. By this, theenvironment is protected from carbon dioxide dischargesfrom the brewery, and at the same time the impact fromthe carbon dioxide quantities that the brewery wouldotherwise have purchased is saved.Targets for 2009In the environmental area, Royal Unibrew will in 2009continue working at the implementation of the commonpolicy and objectives for the entire Group. Our efforts will
concentrate on energy and water savings. Furthermore,working environment and health & safety will be targetareas of high priority.Also in 2009 targeted efforts will be directed at reducingRoyal Unibrew’s indirect environmental impacts in areassuch as the development of lighter packaging andcontainer types for bottles and distribution.In 2009 the results of a project concerning calculationof the CO2 foot print for beer and soft drinks producedin Denmark will be published. Royal Unibrew hasparticipated in a project in this area together withCarlsberg and the Danish industry association.