Corporate social responsibility
To Royal Unibrew, corporate social responsibility work is an integrated part of our business
approach, and we focus on continuously creating results. The corporate social responsibility
work is also an important element in developing the Company’s brands and maintaining
good relations with the Company’s key stakeholders.

Royal Unibrew’s ethical guidelines
Royal Unibrew’s corporate social responsibility work
is based on the principles of the UN Global Compact,
and Royal Unibrew has prepared a set of ethical
guidelines providing the overall framework for the
corporate social responsibility work. The main elements of these guidelines are as follows:
t 3
 PZBM6OJCSFXTQSPEVDUTBOEQSPEVDUJPOTIPVME
meet customer requirements and international
standards for quality, food safety, environment,
working environment and human rights;
t 3PZBM6OJCSFXFOHBHFTJOPQFOEJBMPHVFPOJUT
corporate social responsibility;
t 5IFSFJTGPDVTPOUIFFGGPSUTNBEFCZ3PZBM
Unibrew suppliers to improve quality and the
environment.
Based on these guidelines, specific policies have
been prepared for a number of areas which are of
special importance to Royal Unibrew.
Royal Unibrew’s corporate social responsibility work
is an important element in protecting the Company’s
brands as consumers must be given certainty that
Royal Unibrew products have been manufactured in
a satisfactory manner. Moreover, the corporate social
responsibility work contributes towards ensuring
good working relations with customers and suppliers, increasing production efficiency and decreasing
wastage, reducing non-financial risks and strengthening the Company’s identity and culture.

Health & safety
Royal Unibrew aims at creating a safe and healthy
working environment for its employees and continuously takes measures to protect employees
from work-related risks. Among other things, regular working environment checks are carried out,
risk assessment of the individual job functions are
performed, systematic training and education are
carried out and risk-reducing measures are initiated
with a view to avoiding work-related injuries.
Human rights
Royal Unibrew does not tolerate discrimination of
its employees due to gender, race or religion. Child
labour and slave labour are not permitted, and Royal
Unibrew seeks to ensure that partners and suppliers
live up to this policy. In the supply area, the preparation of guidelines for assessing suppliers on quality,
food safety, environment and their general corporate
social responsibility work has been initiated.
Royal Unibrew employees have the right to unionise
and the right to strike in accordance with the legislation in the countries in which Royal Unibrew has
activities.
Food safety
In 2010 the international ISO 22000 standard was
implemented at the brewery in Odense, Denmark,
which means that the food safety standard has been
fully implemented at the Danish breweries. ISO
22000 is a management system within food safety.

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2010

47

In Poland, certification under the BRC Global
Standard was commenced in 2010. The BRC Global
Standard is a globally recognised programme for
product safety and quality.
All production workers regularly attend courses on
hygiene and food safety.
Responsible alcohol consumption
Royal Unibrew takes responsibility for its communication on beer consumption in relation to advertising, sponsorships and campaigns, especially with
respect to minors. Royal Unibrew complies with
relevant legislation and voluntary industry agreements in the countries in which the Company’s
products are marketed, and Royal Unibrew participates actively in Brewers of Europe’s work to ensure
responsible alcohol consumption.
Competition
Royal Unibrew’s business practice should always
comply fully with competition regulation irrespective of the place of operation. To ensure this, Royal
Unibrew has prepared specific policies, and training
and follow-up in the area are carried out regularly.
Bribery
Royal Unibrew employees may neither pay nor accept any bribe or inappropriate payment for the sake
of their own or the Company’s gain. Involvement in
bribery will lead to disciplinary actions against the
employees in question.

All Royal Unibrew production units and places of
distribution have focus on continuously limiting the
environmental impacts of the Company’s production. The discharge of substances with environmental impact including waste water must at all times
as a minimum meet regulatory requirements and
current legislation.
In recent years, positive results have been achieved,
and efforts are still primarily targeted at:
t
t
t
t

3FEVDUJPOPGFOFSHZDPOTVNQUJPO
3FEVDUJPOPGXBUFSDPOTVNQUJPO
3FEVDUJPOPGXBTUFXBUFSEJTDIBSHF
8BTUFSFDZDMJOH

The Danish breweries have environmental certification under the ISO14001 environmental standard as
well as EMAS registration. A special environmental
report is prepared for production in Denmark.
Energy
Energy consumption per unit produced for the
Group as a whole decreased by 18.5% in 2010 as
compared to 2009. This was due to, among other
things, efficiency enhancement and optimisation at
various levels.
Water consumption and waste water
Water consumption per unit produced for the Group
as a whole decreased by 1.8% in 2010 as compared
to 2009.

ENERGY CONSUMPTION

WATER CONSUMPTION

WASTE WATER

Mega joules per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

150

5

5

120

4

4

90

3

3

60

2

2

30

1

1

0

48

Environment

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2010

0

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

0

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

Waste water discharge per unit produced for the
Group as a whole decreased by 3.5% in 2010 as compared to 2009. This positive development was due to
great focus on efficiency enhancement, optimisation
as well as higher environmental awareness on the
part of our employees.
Resources
An important means of improving our environmental results is the minimisation of all types of waste
of resources. Wastage and shrinkage are currently
measured, both in production and in the rest of the
supply chain, and continuous improvement projects
are implemented.
“Project Wastage” at the Faxe and Odense breweries
has been a key activity in production in 2010. The
project has focused on minimising wastage in relation to the canning/bottling process.

Targets for 2011
In the environmental area, Royal Unibrew will in
2011 continue working at implementing the joint
policy and at reducing environmental impacts.
Targets and improvements will be realised locally at
the breweries to ensure the optimum implementation. Our efforts will concentrate on wastage and
energy and will have continuous focus on water savings. Furthermore, working environment and health
& safety will be target areas of high priority. Also
in 2011 targeted efforts will be directed at reducing
Royal Unibrew’s indirect environmental impacts in
areas, eg through the development of lighter packaging and container types.

The change of the distribution structure in Denmark
as well as the change to more disposable materials
have implied, among other things, increased utilisation of the trucks and lower mileage per hectolitre
delivered, which has resulted in a reduction of CO2
emissions.
Moreover, efforts are directed at increasing the recycling of water and waste. To the extent possible, water is recycled in places where water quality is not so
crucial. Mask and surplus yeast, which are residual
products from production, are sold to local farmers
as animal feed. In 2010 Royal Unibrew in Denmark
achieved certification under GMP+ B2, which is the
standard for quality control of feed materials.
Solid waste, such as glass, is returned to the manufacturer, who uses the returned glass for new bottles.
Plastic is crushed and sold for recycling too. Royal
Unibrew in Denmark recycles approx 80% of its
waste and to maintain focus and further improve the
recycling rate, new targets and plans for 2011 are
being prepared.
At the Danish breweries, capture plants have been
installed for the carbon dioxide released in the brewing process. By this, the environment is protected
from carbon dioxide discharges from the brewery,
and at the same time the impact from the carbon
dioxide quantities that the brewery would otherwise
have purchased is saved.

Additional information and documentation on
environmental issues of Royal Unibrew
In April 2011 the EMAS registered breweries
will issue their Environmental Report for 2010.
This report provides detailed environmental
information on the external and internal environmental work of Royal Unibrew, Denmark.
The Environmental Report may be read at our
website (www.royalunibrew.com).

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2010

49

