Corporate Social Responsibility
To Royal Unibrew, corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an integrated part of our business approach, and we focus on continuously creating results. The CSR efforts are also
an important element in developing the Company’s brands and maintaining good relations
with the Company’s key stakeholders. Royal Unibrew intends to join the UN’s Global Compact (UNGC).

Royal Unibrew’s work with corporate social responsibility is based on the principles of the UN’s
Global Compact in respect of human rights, labour
standards, environment and anti-corruption. Royal
Unibrew has prepared a set of ethical guidelines providing the overall framework for the corporate social
responsibility work.
The main elements of Royal Unibrew’s CSR efforts
are as follows:
t 3PZBM6OJCSFXTQSPEVDUTBOEQSPEVDUJPOTIPVME
meet customer requirements and international
standards for quality, food safety, environment,
working environment and human rights;
t 3PZBM6OJCSFXFOHBHFTJOPQFOEJBMPHVFPOJUT
corporate social responsibility;
t 5IFSFJTGPDVTPOUIFFGGPSUTNBEFCZ3PZBM6OJbrew suppliers to improve quality and the environment as well as their general CSR efforts.
Royal Unibrew’s CSR efforts are an important element in protecting the Company’s brands as consumers must be given certainty that Royal Unibrew’s
products have been manufactured in a satisfactory
manner using materials from suppliers who observe
our ethical guidelines. Moreover, the CSR efforts
contribute towards ensuring good working relations
with customers and suppliers, increasing production efficiency and decreasing wastage, reducing
non-financial risks and strengthening the Company’s
identity and culture.

UN’s Global Compact
– the Ten Principles
Human rights
1. Businesses should support and respect the
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and
2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labour standards
3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the
right to collective bargaining;
4. support the elimination of all forms of forced
and compulsory labour;
5. support the effective abolition of child labour;
and
6. the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation.
Environment
7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
8. undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and
9. encourage the development and diffusion of
environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-Corruption
10. Businesses should work against corruption in
all its forms, including extortion and bribery.

Royal Unibrew intends to join the UN’s Global Compact and to prepare for reporting under the Global
Reporting Initiative in the coming years.

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2011

51

Human rights and labour standards

All Royal Unibrew products in Denmark are moreover GDA labelled (Guideline Daily Amounts), which
offers the consumers the possibility of making
choices with respect to the daily consumption of
alcohol and sugar, etc.

In this area Royal Unibrew has chosen to focus on
the following aspects:
t 0DDVQBUJPOBMIFBMUITBGFUZ
t 3FTQPOTJCMFCFFSBOETPGUESJOLTDPOTVNQUJPO
t 7BMVFTBOEFUIJDBMHVJEFMJOFT
Occupational health & safety
Royal Unibrew aims at creating a safe and healthy
working environment for its employees and continuously takes measures to protect employees
from work-related risks. Among other things, regular working environment checks are carried out,
risk assessment of the individual job functions are
performed, systematic training and education are
carried out and risk-mitigating measures are initiated
with a view to avoiding work-related injuries.
In Denmark Royal Unibrew makes extensive health
offers to all its employees. Among other initiatives,
all employees in distribution participated in a workout programme in relation to the “Think with Your
Back” campaign of the Danish Brewers’ Association
to prevent back injuries.
Responsible beer and soft drinks consumption
Being a beer and soft drinks producer, Royal Unibrew wants to contribute to responsible and prudent consumption of its products. Consequently, in
Denmark Royal Unibrew supports the Brewers of
Europe campaigns on responsible alcohol consumption. Moreover, Royal Unibrew works with responsible marketing in Denmark under the guidelines of
the Danish Brewers’ Association and in the Baltic
countries by using grown-up models in all advertisements for alcoholic drinks, thus only targeting the
20+ age group.

At Royal Unibrew we are also working towards giving the consumers more alternatives. This is done by
eg developing alternative products with no or limited contents of alcohol and sugar and by changing
the product range in soft drinks vending machines.
It is thus the intention for Denmark that soft drinks
vending machines should always contain more water
or light products than sugary products.
In addition to complying with marketing legislation
Royal Unibrew complies with a number of ethical
guidelines and takes responsibility for its communication on beer consumption in relation to advertising, sponsorships and campaigns, especially with
respect to minors.
Values and ethical guidelines
Royal Unibrew does not tolerate discrimination of
its employees due to gender, race or religion. Child
labour and slave labour are not permitted, and Royal
Unibrew seeks to ensure that partners and suppliers
live up to this policy. Royal Unibrew thus accedes
to the principles of human rights and labour standards including eg the principles on child labour laid
down by Unicef, the UNGC and Save the Children.
In the supply area, procedures have been prepared
for measuring suppliers against Royal Unibrew’s
own ethical guidelines.

ENERGY CONSUMPTION

WATER CONSUMPTION

WASTE WATER

Mega joules per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

150
125
100

5

5

4

4

3

3

2

2

1

1

75
50
25
0

52

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2011

0

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

0

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

Royal Unibrew employees have the right to unionise
and the right to strike in accordance with the legislation in the countries in which Royal Unibrew has
activities.
Targets for 2012
t 3BUFPGBDDJEFOUTUPCFSFEVDFEUPMFTTUIBOQFS
million working hours;
t 1BSUJDJQBUJPOJOBOEEFWFMPQNFOUPGw3FTQPOTJCMF
beer and soft drinks consumption” in cooperation
with the Danish Brewers’ Association and ”The
Brewers of Europe”;
t *O%FONBSLXFXJMMTQPOTPSUIFWPMVOUBSZDPSQT
”Natteravnene” (Night Owls); and
t $POUJOVFEBTTFTTNFOUPGTVQQMJFSTUPFOTVSFUIBU
they live up to Royal Unibrew’s ethical guidelines.

Environment
All Royal Unibrew production units focus on continuously limiting the environmental impacts of the
Company’s production. In recent years, there has
been a very positive development in key areas.
Environmental efforts are still primarily targeted at:
t 3FEVDUJPOPGFOFSHZDPOTVNQUJPO
t 3FEVDUJPOPGXBUFSDPOTVNQUJPOBOEPGXBTUF
water discharge
t 8BTUFSFDZDMJOHBOESFEVDUJPOPGDPOTVNQUJPOPG
materials
t $02-neutral production of Egekilde in Denmark
t 'PPETBGFUZBOERVBMJUZ
The Danish breweries have environmental certification under the ISO14001 environmental standard
and a special environmental report is prepared for
production in Denmark.
Energy
Energy consumption per unit produced for the
Group as a whole decreased by 6.3% in 2011 as
compared to 2010. This was caused by, among other
things, efficiency enhancement and various optimisation activities. An example of this is an optimisation project achieving considerable savings through
improved utilisation of excess heat.

Water consumption and waste water discharge
Water consumption per unit produced decreased
by 6.0% from 2010. Waste water discharge for the
Group decreased by 11.1% in 2011. Also in this
area, the very positive development is due to strong
focus on implementing efficiency enhancement and
optimisation and on improving eco-consciousness
among employees.
Waste recycling and reduction
of consumption of resources
An important element in improving our environmental results is the minimisation of all types of waste of
resources.
Over the past year Royal Unibrew has focused
strongly on wastage both with respect to production
and the other parts of the supply chain. Improvement projects are continuously being launched in
this area.
The optimisation of the distribution structure in both
the Baltic countries and in Denmark has implied still
improved utilisation of the trucks and lower mileage per hectolitre delivered, which has resulted in a
reduction of CO2 emissions.
Moreover, efforts are directed at increasing the recycling of water. To the extent possible, water is recycled in places where water quality is not crucial. By
changing internal conveyer belts, the Albani Brewery
achieved a material reduction of water consumption
at the bottling/canning lines.
Solid waste, eg glass, is returned to the manufacturer, who uses the returned glass for new bottles.
Plastic is crushed and sold for recycling too. It is the
intention that going forward the plastic bottles for
Egekilde should contain up to 50% recycled materials.
Mask and surplus yeast, which are residual products
from production, are sold to local farmers as animal
feed. Royal Unibrew in Denmark has GMP+ B2 certification, which is an international approval of the
use of yeast cream for animal feed.

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2011

53

At the Danish Royal Unibrew breweries, capture
plants have been installed to capture the carbon dioxide released in the brewing process. This protects
the environment from carbon dioxide discharges
from the breweries, and at the same time the impact
from the carbon dioxide quantities that the brewery
would otherwise have purchased is saved.
Green Egekilde
In 2011 the value chain of Egekilde products was
examined and the carbon footprint of these products
was calculated and verified. Subsequently, projects
to achieve further CO2 reductions were initiated
eg through using lighter packaging and optimising
packaging production.
Food safety and quality
The Danish breweries have certification under the
international ISO9001 and ISO22000 standards. The
efforts within quality and food safety also comprise
requirements from business partners and the licensors Heineken and PepsiCo.
In the Baltic countries the breweries have certification under ISO9001, and applicable HACCP rules
have been implemented.
All production workers currently attend courses on
hygiene and food safety.
Targets for 2012
t *OUIFFOWJSPONFOUBMBSFB3PZBM6OJCSFXXJMMJO
2012 continue working at implementing a joint
policy and the environmental principles of the
UNCG. Targets and improvements will be realised
locally at the breweries to ensure the most optimum implementation.
t &GGPSUTBSFGPDVTFEPOXBTUBHFBOEFOFSHZTBWJOHT
and current focus on water consumption. The
target is an additional 8% reduction of energy
consumption.
t 5BSHFUFEFGGPSUTXJMMCFEJSFDUFEBUSFEVDJOH
Royal Unibrew’s indirect environmental impacts
through the choice of raw materials, eg the use of
thinner plastics materials for packaging.
t *OUFSOBMMZXFXJMMMJOLUSBJOJOHBOEJNQSPWFNFOU
efforts in relation to environment, quality and
food safety.

54

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2011

Anti-corruption
Royal Unibrew works against all forms of corruption
including extortion and bribery and the Company’s
business practice must always be in full compliance with the legislation irrespective of the place of
operation.
Royal Unibrew employees are not allowed to offer or
accept bribes or any improper payments for personal
or corporate gain. Disciplinary actions will be taken
if an employee is involved in bribery.
Targets for 2012
t 1PTJUJPOPOBOUJDPSSVQUJPOUPCFTUBUFEJOBMM
contexts, internally in the supply chain and in the
cooperation with Royal Unibrew’s customers and
suppliers.

Competition
Royal Unibrew’s business practice should always
comply fully with competition regulation irrespective of the place of operation. To ensure this, Royal
Unibrew has prepared specific policies, and training
and follow-up in the area are carried out regularly.

