ANNUAL REPORT 2013

ROYAL UNIBREW

51

Corporate Social
Responsibility
At Royal Unibrew, corporate
social responsibility (CSR)
work is an integrated part
of our business approach.
The CSR eﬀorts are also
an important element in
developing the Company’s
brands and maintaining good
relations with the Company’s
key stakeholders.

FOCUS AREAS OF OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY WORK
Environment

Occupational
health
& safety

Competence
development

Royal Unibrew’s corporate social responsibility work is based on our values and
the ten principles of the United Nations
Global Compact in respect of human
rights, labour standards, environment
and anti-corruption.

Food safety
& quality

CORPORATE
SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY

Anticorruption &
competition

Royal
Unibrew’s
ethical
guidelines

Responsible
beer and
soft drinks
consumption

Royal Unibrew has prepared a set of
ethical guidelines providing the overall framework for the corporate social
responsibility work.
IT ALSO APPLIES THAT:
σ Royal Unibrew’s products and production should always meet consumer expectations and customer requirements
and must, from time to time, comply
with international standards for quality, food safety, environment, working
environment and human rights.
σ Royal Unibrew engages in open dialogue with customers and consumers
on its corporate social responsibility.

σ There is focus on the eﬀorts made by
Royal Unibrew suppliers to improve
quality, the environment, etc, see related UN Global Compact principles.
σ Royal Unibrew generally follows and
supports The Brewers of Europe’s efforts to advocate responsible beer and
soft drinks consumption.
Royal Unibrew’s CSR eﬀorts are an
important element in protecting the
Company’s brands as consumers must
be given certainty that Royal Unibrew’s

products have been manufactured in
a satisfactory manner using materials from suppliers who also operate
responsibly and meet the Company’s
requirements with respect to the Global
Compact elements.
The CSR eﬀorts support a good dialogue
with consumers, customers and suppliers that contributes towards increasing
production eﬃciency and decreasing
wastage and towards reducing nonfinancial risks and strengthening the
Company’s identity and culture.

52

ROYAL UNIBREW

ANNUAL REPORT 2013

OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH &
SAFETY
Royal Unibrew aims at creating a safe
and healthy working environment for its
employees.
Royal Unibrew’s health policy focuses on
preventive measures to avoid employees
being worn out and incurring work-related injuries and on actively promoting job
satisfaction and eﬃciency.
Our preventive measures in 2013 included the following:
σ In Denmark and Finland, the interdisciplinary cooperation within the safety
organisations was further strengthened by including the retail area in the
safety organisation. This enables bestpractice and experience sharing.
σ The supply chain in Denmark has
increased focus on occupational
health and safety, including focus on
near-accidents and employees’ own
responsibility for accidents. This is
done to sustain the positive development recorded in recent years. In order
to further induce employees to take
occupational health and safety seriously, daily target monitoring has been
introduced to track and draw attention
to days without any accidents.
σ In 2013 Hartwall was certified under OHSAS 1800, the international
standard for occupational health
and safety. Work performed include
causal analyses with a view to reducing occupational health and safety
risks; moreover, sales employees were
trained in prevention of occupational
accidents, eg fall and slip accidents in
the winter.
σ In the Baltic countries, several automation projects were implemented to
improve the working environment
and prevent occupational injuries. The
projects comprise modernisation of
malt and barley handling at Lacplesis’s
brewhouse and establishment of a
new canning unit at Kalnapilis.

TARGETS FOR 2014
σ In Denmark eﬀorts will be directed at
behavioural safety, and in Finland focus will be on risk analyses and safety
culture.
σ Reduction of accident frequency at the
Danish breweries.
σ In Finland a senior policy will be
actively pursued to ensure that senior
employees may continue to contribute
positively to the Company’s development with due regard to their physical
capacity.
σ The Baltic entities will continue their
eﬀorts to increase occupational safety
and to develop ergonomic workplaces
through automation. It is the target
that 30% of the warehouse equipment
should be upgraded to more modern,
safe and ergonomically correct equipment, eg by replacing trucks. Another
target is that 80% of all palletisation
should be automatic.

RESPONSIBLE ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE AND SOFT DRINKS
CONSUMPTION
Royal Unibrew wants to contribute to the
responsible and prudent consumption of
its products.
As a beer and alcoholic beverage maker,
Royal Unibrew has a special responsibility in relation to the social and health
aspects of alcohol consumption.
Royal Unibrew supports The Brewers of
Europe campaigns on responsible alcohol
consumption.
Royal Unibrew employees engaged in
product marketing are currently trained
and instructed in compliance with existing marketing legislation. In Italy and
Denmark, employees also learn about local
industry codes, eg the guidelines of the
Danish advertising standards authority for
soft drinks and alcoholic beverages (Læskedrik- og Alkoholreklamenævnet), and zero
tolerance is pursued when it comes to
non-compliance with the guidelines.

Moreover, in the Baltic countries Royal
Unibrew has also participated in campaigns on a balanced diet, healthy life
style and responsible beer consumption.
In addition to complying with marketing
legislation and the above-mentioned
guidelines, Royal Unibrew gets involved
in customers’ communication on consumption of the Company’s products in
relation to advertising, sponsorships and
campaigns. Compliance with marketing
legislation and certain guidelines are
included in Royal Unibrew’s cooperation
agreements with customers in Denmark
and abroad.
Moreover, Royal Unibrew cooperates with
and supports the work performed by
“Natteravnene” (Night Owls) in Denmark.
Royal Unibrew also has a responsibility for preventing any abuse problems
among its employees.
In Denmark a number of key individuals across the organisation have been
trained in supporting colleagues with a
potential over-consumption of alcohol/
intoxicants, including encouraging treatment, and in helping their colleagues get
back to work again as easily as possible
following treatment. In February 2013
a workshop was held focusing on the
onwards process of ensuring that these
key individuals come more into play in
the organisation, and how colleagues
may to a higher extent make use of their
knowledge. All things considered, this
programme has been successful and
contributes towards our ability to make a
proactive eﬀort.
In Latvia Royal Unibrew along with other
soft drinks producers supported the
preparation of a joint code for responsible marketing of soft drinks, and in
2013 campaigns on balanced consumption of beverages were prepared. In the
Baltic countries Royal Unibrew supports
training in health and a balanced diet in
cooperation with fruit and vegetable producers. There is a ”5-a-day” organisation
which promotes the benefits of including
fruit, vegetables and fruit juices in your
daily diet.

ANNUAL REPORT 2013

As an element in Royal Unibrew’s responsibility with respect to reducing the
consumption of soft drinks containing
sugar, eﬀorts are continuously directed
at promoting calorie-reducing products
such as Nikoline with 30% less sugar
or sugar-free alternatives such as Faxe
Kondi Free and Pepsi Max.
TARGETS FOR 2014
σ Participation in and development
of ”Responsible beer and soft drinks
consumption” in cooperation with
local industry organisations and The
Brewers of Europe.
σ Annual training of all relevant employees in responsible marketing of
beverages.
σ Workshop for in-house ”alcohol and
drug consultants”.
σ Continued participation in the Baltic
countries in educating young people
on the importance of a balanced diet
as well as participation in the ”5-aday” programme.

COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT
Royal Unibrew works in a targeted and
structured manner to develop employee
competences. These eﬀorts are further
described in the section ”Organisation
and Employees”.

VALUES AND ETHICAL
GUIDELINES

It is also Royal Unibrew’s aim that suppliers and partners should comply with the
ethical guidelines, and that these should
be incorporated into the Company’s
terms of trading with key suppliers.
In 2013 Royal Unibrew’s production in
Faxe was certified under a customerspecific, international ethical standard.
In connection with this work, Danish
managers and employees were trained
in Royal Unibrew’s ethical guidelines,
describing, among other things, rules
on human rights, responsible alcohol
consumption, bribery, gifts, conflicts of
interests, confidentiality, competition
and environmental responsibility.
TARGETS FOR 2014
σ As part of our cooperation with key
suppliers, Royal Unibrew’s ethical
guidelines are reviewed at annual
status meetings.
σ Maintenance of certification under the
customer-specific ethical standard.

ENVIRONMENT
All Royal Unibrew production units focus
on continuously limiting the environmental impacts of the Company’s
production. The result of the various
initiatives in recent years has been a very
positive development in key areas.
Environmental eﬀorts are still primarily
targeted at:

ROYAL UNIBREW

ENERGY
In 2013 all Royal Unibrew production
units saw higher production output than
in 2012, which contributed to a favourable development in all environmental
ratios. Total energy consumption per unit
produced decreased by 7.5% to 95.1 MJ/
hl, to which the two Danish breweries
contributed a reduction of 9.8% from
2012. Energy consumption at the Danish
breweries was 74.7 MJ/hl in 2013.
The targeted 8% energy consumption
reduction in 2013 was thus more or less
achieved at group level, whereas both
of the Danish breweries achieved the
target.
At the Albani brewery in Denmark, efforts were directed in 2013 at optimising
wort boiling resulting in less and more
homogeneous evaporation when boiling
wort at the brewhouse. Moreover, the
Albani brewery installed an air preheater
on the gas boiler to the eﬀect that the
energy in the hot exhaust waste gas is
transferred to the air intake for the combustion process.
In the Baltic countries, a brewhouse
optimisation project reduced energy
consumption at the Lacplesis brewery,
whereas a new cooling system at the
Cido soft drinks factory had the same
eﬀect. At the end of 2013, the Kalnapilis
brewery implemented an energy management system to monitor and reduce
energy consumption, which will have full
eﬀect in 2014.

σ Reduction of energy consumption

Royal Unibrew’s values and ethical
guidelines are included as an integrated part of the employment of Royal
Unibrew people. Our ethical guidelines
imply, among other things, that Royal
Unibrew does not tolerate discrimination
of its employees due to gender, race or
religion.

σ Reduction of water consumption and
of waste water discharge

Royal Unibrew accedes to the principles
of human rights and labour standards including eg the principles on child labour
laid down by UNICEF, the UNGC and Save
the Children.

σ Food safety and quality

σ Waste recycling and reduction of consumption of materials
σ CO2-neutral production of all Egekilde
products

53

ENERGY CONSUMPTION
(Mega Joules per produced hectoliter)

125
100
75
50
25
0
2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

54

ROYAL UNIBREW

ANNUAL REPORT 2013

The Finnish Karijoki water bottling plant
implemented a ventilation system automation project in 2013 to the eﬀect that
ventilation is automatically adapted to
needs. Furthermore, the Lahti brewery in
Finland installed new filters with lower
pressure drop in the ventilation system,
which reduce energy consumption for
ventilation.
The Faxe brewery worked with insulation of both buildings and processing
plant in order to minimise energy loss;
moreover, cleaning process optimisation
was realised.
The Albani and Faxe breweries as well
as the Finnish Lahti brewery installed
energy-eﬃcient LED lights in production
areas, which will have full eﬀect on the
energy ratio in 2014.

WATER CONSUMPTION AND
WASTE WATER DISCHARGE
Water consumption per hectolitre produced decreased in 2013 by 5.6% at group
level to 3.3 hectolitres per hectolitre
produced.
In 2013 the Faxe brewery increased its
use of a so-called CIP Diagnostic System
(CDS) which monitors cleaning processes
and facilitates process optimisation. The
system has now been put into operation
both at the brewhouse and the bottling
plant. CDS contributed towards a 4.0%
water consumption reduction per unit
produced at the Faxe brewery in 2013.
Moreover, the system reduces the loss of
cleaning materials and thus contributes
towards reducing waste water discharge.

WATER CONSUMPTION
(Hectoliter per produced hectoliter)
5

In 2013 waste water discharge was 2.3
hectolitres per hectolitre produced at
group level. Less than 2 hectolitres of
waste water per hectolitre produced
were discharged from the Danish breweries.

RECYCLING AND REDUCTION
OF CONSUMPTION OF
RESOURCES
All production sites give high priority to
ensuring the best possible utilisation of
the raw materials and resources used in
order to avoid unnecessary wastage. This
applies to production as well as to the
other parts of the supply chain.
There is great focus on recycling, including sorting of all waste and materials to
enable the highest recycling percentage
possible. At the Danish breweries the
waste recycling share in 2013 represented
more than 90% of total waste volumes.
The Finnish Lahti brewery worked with
the ”No drop to drain” project in 2013
focusing on minimising production wastage and on creating higher awareness of
responsible behaviour among employees. The eﬀorts to optimise CIP processes
will continue in 2014.
In Latvia Cido management participated
in the work of establishing a return system for beverage containers in Latvia.
TARGETS FOR 2014
σ All production sites will in 2014
continue working at identifying and
implementing environmental improvement measures. Targets and improvements will be realised locally at the
production sites to ensure the most
optimum implementation. Eﬀorts are
focused on:
σ Optimum utilisation of raw materials
σ Minimisation of wastage from all
process levels
σ Energy and water consumption
reductions
σ Increased rate of waste recycling

4
3
2
1
0
2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

σ Indirect environmental impacts are
to be reduced through choice of raw
materials, eg by using thinner plastic
materials for packaging purposes.
σ Continuous eﬀorts are also directed
at reducing consumption of materials for glass bottles, cans and plastic
containers.
σ The Baltic entities have decided to
start using sustainable cardboard for
packaging materials.
σ In Denmark CDS systems are being
launched at the bottling plant in Faxe
and the brewhouse at the Albani
brewery. Moreover, Faxe is establishing
recycling of rinsing water in the crate
washer for recyclable crates.

CO2 NEUTRAL PRODUCTION
OF ALL EGEKILDE PRODUCTS
In 2012 the carbon footprint of the
Egekilde products was mapped throughout the chain from raw materials to
delivery to Royal Unibrew’s customers,
and the Egekilde brand was launched
as the first Danish CO2 neutral mineral water product. CO2 neutrality was
achieved by investment in environmentally sound energy through UN-certified
carbon credits. Moreover, the weight of
the bottle was reduced, and the plastic
contains up to 50% recycled material.
Furthermore, continuous eﬀorts are
directed at reducing energy and resource
consumption with suppliers and within
production and logistics.
The launch of the CO2-neutral Egekilde
oﬀers consumers the option of making
a climate-friendly purchasing choice.
Information on Egekilde’s CO2 neutrality
is updated at Royal Unibrew’s website.
TARGETS FOR 2014
σ Updating of carbon footprint of packaging, containers and resources in the
Egekilde production.

ANNUAL REPORT 2013

σ Reduction of consumption of packaging materials. For example, the PET
line is being reconstructed so as to
match bottles with shorter bottle tops.
σ The Egekilde range to be extended
with more CO2 neutral varieties.

FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY
Royal Unibrew’s breweries have certification under the international standards.
The eﬀorts within quality and food
safety also comprise requirements from
customers and licensors. Applicable HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
Points) rules have been implemented.
Brewery

Certification

Cido
Lacplesis
Kalnapilis
Faxe

ISO22000
ISO22000
Preparing for ISO22000
ISO22000/FSSC, ISO9001,
ISO14001
ISO22000, ISO9001,
ISO14001
ISO22000, ISO9001,
ISO14001, OHSAS 18001
ISO22000, ISO9001,
ISO14001, OHSAS 18001

Albani
Lahti
Karijoki

New intensified quality management
requirements from licensors include
traceability and prevention of sabotage. Therefore, eﬀorts were directed at
enhancing the eﬀectiveness of traceability in 2013. Moreover, testing of new
raw materials and packaging materials
was extended so as to be implemented
throughout the supply chain to ensure
eﬃciency and the prevention of errors.
In 2013 production and distribution at
Faxe were certified under a Supply Chain
Security standard. In that connection,
the Danish supply chain was reviewed in
terms of product safety; several improve-

ments were made, eg access control
with photo ID, systematic screening of
employees before their employment in
terms of background, checking of subsuppliers operating in critical areas as
well as IT security verification.
Due to the development and interest in
food safety and quality among consumers, customers and the media, new
“critical” topics to be addressed by Royal
Unibrew emerge continuously. Royal
Unibrew assesses on a current basis how
most appropriately to take responsibility
for preventing risks and how to communicate this. The priorities set are aligned
with those of industry associations and
Royal Unibrew’s licensors. Royal Unibrew
aims at communicating openly and
honestly and has, as an element in these
eﬀorts, prepared a list of frequently
asked questions and Royal Unibrew’s
replies to these (FAQ). This FAQ list covers
areas such as GMO, allergenes, caramel
colouring agents, Bisphenol A, etc.
In 2013 Royal Unibrew contributed,
through the Danish Brewers’ Association
and The Brewers of Europe, to legislative work and review in relevant areas,
eg product contact materials, caramel
colouring agents and Bisphenol A.
TARGETS FOR 2014
σ ISO 22000 certification of the Kalnaplilis brewery and FSSC certification of
the Albani, Lahti and Karijoki breweries.
σ Implementation of new requirements
from licensors with respect to prevention of sabotage at all levels and quality assurance of the quality analysis
process.
σ Development and testing of crisis
management.

ROYAL UNIBREW

55

ANTI-CORRUPTION
Royal Unibrew works against all forms of
corruption including extortion and bribery and the Company’s business practice
must always be in full compliance with
anti-corruption legislation irrespective of
the place of operation.
According to Royal Unibrew’s ethical
guidelines our employees are not allowed to oﬀer or accept bribes or any
improper payments for personal or
corporate gain. Disciplinary actions will
be taken if an employee is involved in
bribery. The sales staﬀ in all sales areas
are trained annually in this aspect.
TARGETS FOR 2014
σ Position on anti-corruption to be
stated in all contexts, internally in the
supply chain and in the cooperation
with Royal Unibrew’s customers and
suppliers.
σ Anti-corruption training of new sales
staﬀ and follow-up training of other
employees.

COMPETITION
Royal Unibrew’s business practice should
always comply fully with applicable competition regulation irrespective of the
place of operation. To ensure this, Royal
Unibrew has implemented a competition
compliance programme comprising a
manual and guidelines as well as regular
training and follow-up in the area.
Moreover, internal controls are carried
out regularly in the area.
TARGET FOR 2014
σ Competition law training of all new
sales staﬀ.
σ Competition law updating of other
sales staﬀ.

