Corporate Social Responsibility
At Royal Unibrew, corporate social responsibility (CSR) work is an integrated part of our
values and supports our business approach. The CSR efforts are also an important element
in developing the Company’s brands and maintaining good relations with the Company’s key
stakeholders.

Royal Unibrew’s corporate social responsibility work
is based on our values and the ten principles of the
United Nations Global Compact in respect of human
rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Royal Unibrew has prepared a set of ethical
guidelines providing the overall framework for the
corporate social responsibility work.
The main elements of Royal Unibrew’s CSR efforts
are as follows:
t 3PZBM6OJCSFXTQSPEVDUTBOEQSPEVDUJPOTIPVME
meet consumer expectations and customer requirements and must, from time to time, comply
with national standards for quality, food safety,
environment, working environment and human
rights
t 3PZBM6OJCSFXFOHBHFTJOPQFOEJBMPHVFXJUI
customers and consumers on its corporate social
responsibility
t 5IFSFJTGPDVTPOUIFFGGPSUTNBEFCZ3PZBM6OJbrew suppliers to improve quality and the environment as well as their general CSR efforts
t 3PZBM6OJCSFXHFOFSBMMZGPMMPXTBOETVQQPSUT
The Brewers of Europe’s efforts to advocate responsible beer and soft drinks consumption

and decreasing wastage and towards reducing nonfinancial risks and strengthening the Company’s
identity and culture.

UN’s Global Compact
– the Ten Principles
Human rights
1. Businesses should support and respect the
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and
2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labour standards
3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the
right to collective bargaining;
4. support the elimination of all forms of forced
and compulsory labour;
5. support the effective abolition of child labour;
and
6. the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation.

Royal Unibrew’s CSR efforts are an important element
in protecting the Company’s brands as consumers
must be given certainty that Royal Unibrew’s products have been manufactured in a satisfactory manner
using materials from suppliers who observe our ethical guidelines. Royal Unibrew thus has continuous
focus on its suppliers’ efforts to improve quality and
the environment as well as their general CSR work.

Environment
7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
8. undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and
9. encourage the development and diffusion of
environmentally friendly technologies.

Moreover, the CSR efforts support a good dialogue
with consumers, customers and suppliers that contributes towards increasing production efficiency

Anti-Corruption
10. Businesses should work against corruption in
all its forms, including extortion and bribery.

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2012

51

Human rights and labour standards
In the area of human rights and labour standards
Royal Unibrew has chosen to focus on the following
aspects:
t
t
t
t

0DDVQBUJPOBMIFBMUITBGFUZ
3FTQPOTJCMFCFFSBOETPGUESJOLTDPOTVNQUJPO
$PNQFUFODFEFWFMPQNFOU
7BMVFTBOEFUIJDBMHVJEFMJOFT

Occupational health & safety
Royal Unibrew aims at creating a safe and healthy
working environment for its employees.
Royal Unibrew’s health & safety policy focuses on
preventive measures to avoid employees being worn
out and incurring work-related injuries and on actively promoting job satisfaction and efficiency.
Our preventive measures include the following:
t *OPSEFSUPGVSUIFSJNQSPWFPVSXPSLJOHFOWJSPOment and professionalise our proposition to our
employees, brewery workers of Royal Unibrew
in Denmark have as of 2013 been offered coverage under a health scheme comprising healthcare
treatments as well as a telephone helpline relating
to abuse, mental problems and health.
t $POUJOVPVTJNQSPWFNFOUTPGQBDLBHJOHVOMPBEing and carrying conditions with customers in
continuation of the “Think with Your Back”
campaign of the Danish Brewers’ Association to
prevent back injuries.
t 4VQQPSUJOHFNQMPZFFTJOFYFSDJTJOHoFHCZNBLing contributions to various staff events such as
running events and the workplace exercise programme “Arbejdspladsen Motionerer”.
t *OUIF#BMUJDDPVOUSJFTFGGPSUTBSFEJSFDUFEBUBVUPmating order handling and more pallet delivery;
today, approx 20% is handled automatically.
Responsible beer and soft drinks consumption
Royal Unibrew wants to contribute to the responsible and prudent consumption of its products.
As a beer producer, Royal Unibrew has a special
responsibility in relation to the social and health
aspects of alcohol consumption.
Royal Unibrew supports The Brewers of Europe
campaigns on responsible alcohol consumption.
Moreover, Royal Unibrew works with responsible
marketing in Denmark under the guidelines of the

52

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2012

Danish Brewers’ Association, in Italy under internal
guidelines consistent with industry norms and in the
Baltic countries by using grown-up models in all advertisements for alcoholic drinks, thus only targeting
the 20+ age group. Moreover, in the Baltic countries
Royal Unibrew has also participated in campaigns
on a balanced diet, healthy life style and responsible
beer consumption.
In addition to complying with marketing legislation
Royal Unibrew complies with a number of ethical
guidelines and takes responsibility for its communication on beer consumption in relation to advertising, sponsorships and campaigns. These guidelines
are included in Royal Unibrew’s cooperation agreements with customers in Denmark.
Royal Unibrew employees involved in product marketing are regularly instructed and trained in compliance with the rules of the Danish Brewers’ Association, and zero tolerance is pursued with respect to
breaking of the rules. Specifically, this implies that
each incident that might lead to a reprimand in the
Danish Alcohol Advertising Board has direct consequences to the individual Danish employee.
Moreover, Royal Unibrew cooperates with and supQPSUTUIFXPSLQFSGPSNFECZi/BUUFSBWOFOFw	/JHIU
0XMT
JO%FONBSL
Royal Unibrew also has a responsibility for preventing abuse problems among its employees. Therefore,
Royal Unibrew in Denmark has in 2012 trained a
number of key individuals across the organisation in
supporting colleagues in connection with a potential
over-consumption of alcohol/intoxicants, including
encouraging treatment, and in helping their colleagues get back to work again as easily as possible
following treatment.
Competence development
Royal Unibrew works in a targeted and structured
manner to develop employee competences. These
efforts are further described in the section ”Organisation and employees”.
Values and ethical guidelines
Royal Unibrew’s values and ethical guidelines are
included as an integrated part of the employment of
Royal Unibrew people. Our ethical guidelines imply,
among other things, that Royal Unibrew does not tolerate discrimination of its employees due to gender,
race or religion.

Royal Unibrew accedes to the principles of human
rights and labour standards including eg the principles on child labour laid down by Unicef, the UNGC
and Save the Children.
It is also Royal Unibrew’s aim that suppliers and
partners should comply with the ethical guidelines,
and that these should be incorporated into the Company’s terms of trading with key suppliers.

Targets for 2013
t 3
 BUFPGBDDJEFOUTUPCFSFEVDFEBUUIF%BOJTI
breweries from 46 to less than 35 per million
working hours
t "VUPNBUJPOPGMPHJTUJDTJOUIF#BMUJDDPVOUSJFTUP
achieve 80%, instead of the current 20%, pallet
handling
t "OOVBMUSBJOJOHPGBMMTBMFTTUBGGJOSFTQPOTJCMF
marketing of beverages
t 4USFOHUIFOJOHPGFNQMPZFFTQSPGFTTJPOBMBOE
social competences
t 5SBJOJOHPGEJTUSJCVUPSTBOEMJDFODFIPMEFSTJO
ethical guidelines
t 1BSUJDJQBUJPOJOBOEEFWFMPQNFOUPGw3FTQPOTJCMF
beer and soft drinks consumption” in cooperation
with the Danish Brewers’ Association and The
Brewers of Europe
t 1FSGPSNBODFPGBVEJUTPGFUIJDBMHVJEFMJOFTXJUI
strategic suppliers

Environment
All Royal Unibrew production units focus on continuously limiting the environmental impacts of the
Company’s production. The result of the various
initiatives in recent years has been a very positive
development in key areas.
Environmental efforts are still primarily targeted at:
t 3
 FEVDUJPOPGFOFSHZDPOTVNQUJPO
t 3FEVDUJPOPGXBUFSDPOTVNQUJPOBOEPGXBTUF
water discharge
t 8BTUFSFDZDMJOHBOESFEVDUJPOPGDPOTVNQUJPOPG
materials
t $02-neutral production of all Egekilde products
t 'PPETBGFUZBOERVBMJUZ

The Danish breweries have environmental certification under the ISO14001 environmental standard
and green accounts are prepared for production in
Denmark.
Energy
Energy consumption per unit produced decreased
by 11.7% in 2012 as compared to 2011 to 73 MJ per
hectolitre. This was caused by, among other things,
efficiency improvement and optimisation.
Efforts were directed at reducing energy consumption at the Albani Brewery by improving the rate
of utilisation of the steam boiler plant eg through
energy recycling.

ENERGY CONSUMPTION

WATER CONSUMPTION

WASTE WATER

Mega joules per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

Hectoliter per produced hectoliter

150
125
100

5

5

4

4

3

3

2

2

1

1

75
50
25
0

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

0

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

0

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2012

53

At the Faxe Brewery a structured energy consulting process was carried out in 2012 with a view to
prioritising and implementing energy improvement
projects. Moreover, several projects to reduce water
consumption, heat consumption and electricity consumption were carried out.

Waste water discharge from the Group’s production
facilities in 2012 was 2.1 hectolitre per hectolitre
output as in 2011. All breweries have strong focus on
implementing efficiency improvements and optimisations and on increasing environmental awareness
among employees.

The heat recovery systems were also optimised,
which contributed towards improving energy ratios
in 2012.

Waste recycling and reduction of
consumption of resources
An important element in improving our environmental results is the minimisation of all types of waste of
resources.

The Kalnapilis Brewery implemented a heat recovery
and energy management system, which has reduced
energy consumption.
Water consumption and waste water discharge
At the Danish breweries water consumption per unit
produced decreased by 10.7% in 2012 as compared
to 2011.
At a section of the Faxe Brewery a system to monitor
cleaning processes was installed in order to optimise the processes. This resulted in water savings
of 12,000 m3 of water or 12.7% in 2012. Experience
from this project is expected to be applied to the
remaining part of the Faxe Brewery and to Royal
Unibrew’s other breweries in order for water consumption to be further reduced.
Changed rinsing of kieselguhr filters and water recovery in connection with rinsing of cans also had a
large positive effect on water consumption and waste
water discharge at Faxe.
CO2 BREAKDOWN FOR EGEKILDE PRODUCTS
Grams per 50 cl bottle
UN-certified carbon credits
Recycling of bottles and containers
Distribution
Bottling
Mineral water
Bottle+container
-60 -50-40 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80

54

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2012

In 2012 Royal Unibrew focused strongly on wastage
both with respect to production and the other parts
of the supply chain.
The brewery in Faxe focused on increasing the recycling of several products, which implied that value
utilisation has increased and that waste volumes
have been reduced.
Moreover, efforts are continuously directed at reducing the consumption of materials for glass bottles,
cans and plastic bottles.
CO2 neutral production of all Egekilde products
In 2012 the carbon footprint of the Egekilde products
was mapped throughout the chain from raw materials to delivery to Royal Unibrew’s customers.
The mapping resulted in the launch of the Egekilde
brand as the first Danish CO2-neutral mineral water
product. CO2 neutrality was achieved by investment
in environmentally sound energy through UN- certified carbon credits. At the same time, the weight
of the bottle was reduced, and the plastic contains
up to 50% recycled material. The graphic illustration shows the carbon footprint from production
to consumer, and that subsequent recycling of the
containers may save the environment a large part of
the carbon footprint.
Furthermore, continuous efforts are directed at
reducing energy and resource consumption with
suppliers and within production and logistics.
The launch of the CO2-neutral Egekilde offers
consumers the option of making a climate-friendly
purchasing choice. This is a step in the right direction and in many ways represents Royal Unibrew’s
approach and assumption of responsibility for the
environment.

Food safety and quality
Royal Unibrew’s Danish breweries have certification under the international ISO9001 and ISO22000
standards. The efforts within quality and food safety
also comprise requirements from customers and
licensors. In the Baltic countries the breweries have
certification under ISO9001. Also in the Baltic countries, efforts within food safety have been developed
with a view to certification under ISO 22000, and
BQQMJDBCMF)"$$1	)B[BSE"OBMZTJTBOE$SJUJDBM
$POUSPM1PJOUT
SVMFTIBWFCFFOJNQMFNFOUFE
New intensified quality management requirements
from licensors include traceability and prevention of sabotage. Therefore, efforts were directed at
enhancing the effectiveness of traceability in 2012.
Moreover, testing of new raw materials and packaging materials was extended so as to be implemented
throughout the supply chain to ensure efficiency and
the prevention of errors.
Due to the development and interest in food safety
and quality among consumers, customers and the
media, new “critical” topics to be addressed by
Royal Unibrew emerge continuously. Royal Unibrew
assesses on a current basis how most appropriately
to take responsibility for preventing risks and how to
communicate this. The priorities set are aligned with
those of industry associations and Royal Unibrew’s
licensors. Royal Unibrew aims at communicating
openly and honestly and has, as an element in these
efforts, prepared a list of frequently asked questions
BOE3PZBM6OJCSFXTSFQMJFTUPUIFTF	'"2
5IJT
FAQ list covers areas such as GMO, allergenes, caramel colouring agents, etc.
Targets for 2013
t *OUIFFOWJSPONFOUBMBSFB3PZBM6OJCSFXXJMMJO
2013 continue working at implementing a joint
policy and the environmental principles of the
UNCG. Targets and improvements will be realised
locally at the breweries to ensure the most optimum implementation.
t &GGPSUTBSFGPDVTFEPOXBTUBHFBOEFOFSHZTBWJOHT
and current focus on water consumption. The
target is an additional 8% reduction of energy
consumption.
t 5BSHFUFEFGGPSUTXJMMCFEJSFDUFEBUSFEVDJOH
Royal Unibrew’s indirect environmental impacts
through the choice of raw materials, eg the use of
thinner plastic materials for packaging.

t * OUFSOBMMZXFXJMMMJOLUSBJOJOHBOEJNQSPWFNFOU
efforts in relation to environment, quality and
food safety.
t *40DFSUJmDBUJPOPGUIF#BMUJDCSFXFSJFT
t /FXSFRVJSFNFOUTGSPNMJDFOTPSTXJUISFTQFDUUP
prevention of sabotage at all levels and quality
assurance of the quality analysis process will be
implemented.
Anti-corruption
Royal Unibrew works against all forms of corruption
including extortion and bribery and the Company’s
business practice must always be in full compliance with the legislation irrespective of the place of
operation.
According to Royal Unibrew’s ethical guidelines our
employees are not allowed to offer or accept bribes
or any improper payments for personal or corporate
gain. Disciplinary actions will be taken if an employee is involved in bribery. The sales staff of the Danish organisation and in the malt beverages segment
are trained annually in this aspect.
Targets for 2013
t 1PTJUJPOPOBOUJDPSSVQUJPOUPCFTUBUFEJOBMM
contexts, internally in the supply chain and in the
cooperation with Royal Unibrew’s customers and
suppliers.
t "OUJDPSSVQUJPOUSBJOJOHPGOFXTBMFTTUBGG
Competition
Royal Unibrew’s business practice should always
comply fully with competition regulation irrespective of the place of operation. To ensure this, Royal
Unibrew has prepared specific policies, and training
and follow-up in the area are carried out regularly.
This includes a requirement for our customers to
market Royal Unibrew products in accordance with
applicable advertising law.
Targets for 2013
t $PNQFUJUJPOMBXUSBJOJOHPGBMMOFXTBMFTTUBGG
t $PNQFUJUJPOMBXVQEBUJOHPGBMMFYJTUJOHTBMFT
staff.

ROYAL UNIBREW ANNUAL REPORT 2012

55

