28
28
contents

RTX Annual Report 2013/14
RTX Annual Report 2013/14
hIGhlIGhts

dear shareholder

summary

PrImary actIvIty

fInancIal hIGhlIGhts

desIGn servIces

Intellectual resources

MANAGEMENT REPoRT

enterPrIse & voIP

corPorate Governance

actIvItIes and fInances

research and develoPment

CSR

statements

fInancIal statements

uncertaInty

ProsPects

CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
RTX strives to act responsibly towards
all the Group’s stakeholders. This is a
core value in the way we define and implement strategic objectives and action
plans. RTX has adopted the UN’s Global
Compact principles for social responsibility, and they now form the basis for
both our internal and external conduct.
UN’s Global Compact is the world’s
largest initiative for corporate social responsibility. As RTX wishes to contribute
to society’s positive development, RTX
has signed up to these principles, which
cover human rights, employees’ rights,
the environment and anti-corruption.
In our contracts and current dialogue
with our suppliers, RTX also assists in
the observance of human rights, employees’ rights, the environment and
anti-corruption.

HuMAN RIGHTS

Principle 1:
RTX supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed
human rights.
Principle 2:
RTX will make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights
abuses.
At the end of the financial year
2013/14, the RTX Group employed 155
people: 105 in Denmark and 50 outside Europe. RTX strives to manage the
company professionally in all aspects.
All employees are offered facilities and
working conditions that accord with local conditions.
RTX assigns great importance to a
healthy physical and psychological
working environment and we currently
carry out employee satisfaction surveys
in addition to the mandatory workplace
assessments. The satisfaction survey is
anonymous. The results are analysed

by the management with a subsequent
summary shared with the employees.
Based on these questionnaires, initiatives as well as areas of improvement
are defined by management and employees. Previous surveys have resulted
in RTX investing in indoor climate improvements at the Nørresundby site
during the financial year 2013/14. The
investment also led to reduced energy
consumption. The 2014 employee satisfaction survey has also resulted in new
initiatives.
We regularly invite all employees to
internal employee briefings where an
open and constructive dialogue is encouraged. We believe that a good working environment and a high level of job
satisfaction results in greater employee
satisfaction, higher efficiency levels,
lower staff turnover and low absenteeism.
Every four years, in accordance with
the Danish Companies Act, RTX Group
employees elect two members of the
Supervisory Board and two representatives for the employee-elected board
members. The next election will take
place in the financial year 2014/15. The
employee representatives are elected
for a four year period, and they join the
Supervisory Board following the Annual
General Meeting in January 2015.

ber of female board members elected
by the Annual General Meeting. By 2017
the number of female members on the
Supervisory Board will be at least 17%
of the board members elected at the
Annual General Meeting. In January
2014, the first female member of RTX’s
Supervisory Board was elected by the
Annual General Meeting. This means
that women now represent 20% of the
board members elected by the Annual
General Meeting.
other management:
In order to promote, facilitate and increase the number of women in management level positions at RTX, Management defined the following objectives in
2013/14:
To increase the percentage of females
at management level as vacancies arise,
based on the selection of candidates
with the appropriate skills and to ensure
that the recruitment firms in question
identify at least one female candidate.
In 2013/14 there were no vacant positions in the RTX management team.

EMPLoYEES’ RIGHTS

objective for the underrepresented
gender:
RTX’s staff policy aims to attract and
maintain highly qualified and motivated
employees. With regard to employment
and recruitment we endeavour to have
both male and female candidates, despite the fact that we operatein a maledominated working environment.

Principle 3:
RTX supports freedom of association
and recognises the right to collective
bargaining.
Principle 4:
RTX supports the elimination of all
kinds of forced labour.
Principle 5:
RTX supports the effective abolition
of child labour.
Principle 6:
RTX supports the elimination of
discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

Executive management:
In April 2013 the Supervisory Board
adopted policy to ensure a greater num-

RTX is currently involved in promoting
the well-being of its employees. We
want to be an attractive employer for all

RTX Annual Report 2013/14
RTX Annual Report 2013/14
contents

hIGhlIGhts

dear shareholder

summary

PrImary actIvIty

fInancIal hIGhlIGhts

desIGn servIces

Intellectual resources

employees, irrespective of gender, religion and ethnic background.
RTX has drawn up policies for senior and
disabled employees, and we have examples of employees who, in recent years,
have benefitted from such policies. RTX
cooperates with local job centres in
their work assessment schemes, traineeships, etc. and in some cases we have
offered full-time positions to individuals
following their training period with us.
The safety committee in RTX is part of
our statutory safety organisation. This is
responsible for ensuring a good working environment for all employees in the
company, and it consists of both management and employee representatives
(safety representatives).
RTX has achieved the Danish Working
Environment Services’ “green smiley”
award for its Danish workplace, which
recognises compliance with working
environmental regulations on a good
working environment - both physically
and psychologically.

MANAGEMENT REPoRT

enterPrIse & voIP

corPorate Governance

actIvItIes and fInances

research and develoPment

CSR

ENVIRoNMENT

Principle 7:
RTX supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
Principle 8:
RTX supports initiatives to promote
greater environmental responsibility.
Principle 9:
RTX supports the development and
diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies.
RTX wishes to demonstrate responsibility for the environment and to reduce
our consumption of water, heat and
electricity. RTX has implemented energy-saving schemes as ”Wake-on-LAN”
because servers, computers and software play a major role in a development
company like RTX. Furthermore, RTX has
switched to energy saving light sources.
RTX cooperates with a number of customers who are involved in the development of efficient energy-saving radio
technologies.

RTX has established a coordination
committee in Nørresundby. The purpose
is to promote the ongoing development
and efficiency of the company and its
continued competitiveness, which is in
the interests of both management and
the employees. The committee comprises six members: two members from the
Executive Team and four members are
elected democratically by secret ballot
by all employees (+ 2 substitutes).

RTX’s continuous development of the
DECT standard has led to environmentally friendly and energy-saving
improvements to the DECT technology
known as DECT ULE (Ultra Low Energy).
One of the advantages of this technology is that it generates energy-saving
operations. It also enables an extended
lifetime for batteries in mobile and wireless units. RTX has contributed to the
implementation of this technology in
several customer projects during the
year under reviews.

Freedom of association applies to all
employees in RTX, and RTX complies
with collective agreements.

In the same way -but with another
wireless technology namely Bluetooth –
RTX expects to take part in major, partly

statements

29
29

fInancIal statements

uncertaInty

ProsPects

customer-financed projects within Bluetooth Low Energy (also known as Bluetooth Smart) in 2014/15. Compared to
the classic Bluetooth, the advantage of
Bluetooth Low Energy is that this is able
to contribute to a significantly reduced
power consumption while maintaining
the communication range.
RTX cooperates with sub-suppliers to
reduce material consumption and impact
on the environment. RTX also encourages its sub-suppliers to use environmentally acceptable raw materials and
products, and RTX requires them to
comply with directives that regulate the
environmental-friendly production and
handling of electronic equipment (RoHS,
REACH and WEEE directives).

ANTI-CoRRuPTIoN

Principle 10:
RTX wish to work against corruption
in all its forms, including extortion
and bribery.
RTX strongly disapproves of corruptionin all its forms, including extortion
and bribery. This is why, in 2013, the
Supervisory Board introduced a whistleblower policy in order to emphasise to
employees that RTX wishes to be an
open and trustworthy organisation, and
that the Executive Management encourages everyone to report any serious and
sensitive matters relating to any breach
of the company’s business ethics and/or
relevant legislation. The policy has been
implemented and employees have the
opportunity to report any unethical conduct to the Supervisory Board in RTX.
No matters were reported under the
whistleblower policy during the financial
year 2013/14.

