Corporate governance
Statutory report
Schouw & Co. has prepared a statutory corporate
governance report for the 2015 financial year, as
required under section 107 b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The statutory report consists
of three parts:
A report on the company's work to comply
with the recommendations on corporate governance, which is found below.
A description of the main elements of the
Group's internal control and risk management
systems in connection with the financial reporting process, which is found on page 21.
A description of the composition of the company's management bodies, committees established
and their functions, which is found on pages 2223. In addition, information on the company's
Board of Directors and Executive Management
can be found on pages 13-16.
The full report on corporate governance as required under section 107 b of the Danish Financial Statements Act is available from
schouw.dk/cg2015. As required under section 99
a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, Schouw
& Co. has also prepared a statutory report on corporate social responsibility, and a statutory report
on targets and policies on the gender composition
of the management, see section 99 a of the Danish
Financial Statements Act, which can be found below.
Corporate governance recommendations
Schouw & Co. complies with the rules applying to
companies listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen, which

include a code on corporate governance as set out
in “Corporate Governance Recommendations”.
The Board of Directors and the Executive Management of Schouw & Co. see corporate governance
as a natural part of running a responsible business. Corporate governance considerations and
the interaction with the company's stakeholders is
a constant priority, and considering the company’s corporate governance policy is a recurring
item in the annual business of the Board meetings.
Schouw & Co. believes it complies in all material
respects with the intentions of “Corporate Governance Recommendations”. However, there are a
few areas in which Schouw & Co. does not apply
the corporate governance recommendations.
A detailed account of the company's position on
each individual item of the Recommendations on
Corporate Governance is provided (in Danish) on
the website: schouw.dk/cg2015.
Social responsibility (section 99 a)
Schouw & Co.'s general policy is for all of the
Group’s companies, as a minimum, to comply
with relevant legislation and regulations applying
in the countries and local communities in which
they operate. None of the portfolio companies
have any outstanding issues with the authorities
of those countries.
Schouw & Co. operates a group of companies that
derive the bulk of their revenue from advanced
process production in which issues like ongoing

reduction of energy consumption and waste of input materials form an essential part of their business model. Most of the Group's operations are located in Denmark or neighbouring European
countries with well-established and detailed legislation. However, the Group also has business
operations in non-European countries, mainly in
Malaysia and Chile, but the production facilities
there are generally fully on par with the European
units. In Europe as well as the other countries,
our companies generally employ a skilled workforce.
Considering the assumed high standards in our
portfolio companies, we have not yet found it
necessary to lay down specific CSR policies or establish systems or mechanisms inherent to such
policies. Accordingly, Schouw & Co. has not
adopted a specific policy for reducing the climate
impact from the company's activities or specific
policies pertaining to human rights.
In the year under review, Schouw & Co. investigated the possibility of working out appropriate
guidelines for structuring CSR efforts across the
Group's companies. However, the Group's companies are involved in different industries and have
traditionally directed their CSR efforts at target
areas of particular relevance for each individual
industry. These efforts have continued in the various companies in the year under review.
BioMar, the Group’s largest business accounting
for more than 70% of the consolidated revenue,
released its first Sustainability Report in 2015.
Covering the 2014 financial year, the report is

Annual Report 2015 Schouw & Co. 19

Corporate governance
structured according to the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines under the Global Reporting Initiative, but the report is not externally audited.
At the beginning of 2016, the Group’s second-largest business, Fibertex Personal Care, was certified
to the ISO 50001 Energy Management standard.
We continue to believe that value creation is best
supported by according our individual portfolio
companies a degree of self-determination in planning their work, and that specifically laying down
general CSR policies for all Group companies
would thus not serve any purpose. We are aware,
however, that there may be areas of common interest, especially in the field of human rights. As a
result, we intend to investigate in 2016 whether
an appropriate joint structure can be established
in this particular field.
The company's website – schouw.dk/cg2015 –
contains illustrated descriptions of the business
activities of our individual subsidiaries. Also
available from the website is BioMar’s Sustainability Report published in 2015.
Gender composition (section 99 b)
The Board of Directors of Schouw & Co. has fixed
the following targets for the gender composition
of its management.
For the measurement period from 1 April 2013 to
31 March 2017, the target is to increase the number of female board members of Aktieselskabet
Schouw & Co. from one member currently, equal
to 14%, to at least two members, equal to at least
28%. A target has also been defined for the Group
that all large Danish reporting class C companies

should have representation of at least one female
board member, equal to at least 20%. At the start
of the measurement period, none of these companies had female board members.
The Board of Directors of Aktieselskabet Schouw
& Co. consists of seven shareholder-elected members, one of whom is female. No changes have
been made to the Board’s composition since the
start of the measurement period.
The Group has five subsidiaries in the relevant reporting class: BioMar Group A/S with four shareholder-elected board members, BioMar A/S with
three shareholder-elected board members, Fibertex Personal Care A/S and Fibertex Nonwovens
A/S both with four shareholder-elected board
members, and Hydra-Grene A/with five shareholder-elected board members.
Other than one board member of BioMar A/S being replaced in March 2015, there have been no
changes to the composition of the shareholderelected memberships of the boards of directors involved since the current targets were adopted.
BioMar A/S is a subsidiary of BioMar Group A/S,
and the company’s board of directors consists of
senior employees of the BioMar Group. The new
board member is male and a senior employee
with many years of seniority with the company.
He replaced an executive who had resigned from
the board. BioMar Group had no internal female
candidates with the relevant qualifications at the
time.

In addition, the Board of Directors of Schouw &
Co. has adopted, on behalf of the Group, the following policy for increasing the proportion of the
under-represented gender at the Group's other
management levels:
Schouw & Co. is aware that the proportion of
women at management level in the Group is generally lower than the gender composition of the
Group's employees in general. Accordingly, the
companies of the Schouw & Co. Group will make
a special effort to create a framework to support
the career development of individual women employees, for example through networks, mentor
schemes or other specific initiatives that may help
individual employees build management experience.
The companies of the Schouw & Co. Group will
also make a dedicated effort to ensuring the best
possible women representation among candidates
being considered for management positions.
During the year, no management changes were
made in the companies in which Schouw & Co.
exercises control.

Accordingly, the Group made no progress in 2015
in meeting the targets.
Annual Report 2015 Schouw & Co. 20

