SIMCORP’S RELATIONSHIP WITH ITS STAKEHOLDERSSimcorp’s management objective is in all respect to promotethe long-term interests of the company, and thus of all shareholders
customers, employees, and suppliers. Such relations
among other things, that SimCorp sets up durable and constructiverelationships with the Group’s primary stakeholders:shareholders, customers, employees and suppliers. Such relationsare based on the Group’s mission and on professional andcommercial relations.SimCorp’s information policy plays a key role in this connection.The policy is designed to ensure that stakeholders receivetimely, relevant, accurate and full information on the Group’sactivities to the extent such disclosure would not be detrimentalor potentially detrimental to SimCorp’s existing or futurecompetitive position. In order to enable shareholders andequity market participants to make an independent, professionalevaluation and analysis of SimCorp’s commercial andfinancial position and future prospects, SimCorp publishesmaterial information on the company’s financial results,business activities and strategic goals.Part of this disclosure is a regular part of SimCorp’s interimreports.

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYCorporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Simcorp is firmlybased on the Group’s core values and SimCorp’s ‘CorporateGovernance Guidelines’ as adopted by the Board of Directors.Our commitment to sustainable development of SimCorp isbased on combining financial performance with sociallyresponsible behavior and environmental awareness.Overall, SimCorp aims at maintaining and enhancing ourprofessional relations with internal and external stakeholdersbased on mutual respect. We abide by the law in all our doings,locally as well as internationally, and in the conduct of businesswe will maintain a high ethical standard and always performour activities with integrity and responsibility.SimCorp is greatly committed to proper and diligent conductin respect of the services and products we provide to ourclients, and we commit ourselves to long-term and mutuallyvalue adding relationships with all our customers with respectfor each individual client’s business and social environment.We expect all our existing and potential clients to share ourstandards for sound and responsible behavior and trust themto operate in a legal and ethical manner.We respect the individuality of all our employees and offereach equal opportunity for learning and growing in accordancewith their individual needs and capabilities as well asthe company’s situation.Our communication policy ensures all our shareholders equal,adequate and timely access to information on our business.We pursue an open dialogue with all investors and analystsabout the company’s activities and financial performance.We aim to reduce our environmental impact and act withsustained reliability and respect for our surroundings.

