CONTENTS

COMPANY DETAILS

MANAGEMENT COMMENTARY

STATEMENTS

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Corporate social responsibility
Corporate social responsibility
SP Group acknowledges the Group’s responsibility to contribute to a sustainable development, and SP Group recognises the correlation between
acting responsibly on the one hand and increasing the Group’s earnings
and growth on the other.
The basis of SP Group’s work with social responsibility is the UN Global Compact – the ten principles of human rights, employee rights, environment and
anti-corruption according to which the UN has listed guidelines for companies’ work to ensure a more sustainable development. SP Group follows the
10 principles set out in the UN Global Compact and gives an account of the
four areas in the following. As of the beginning of 2012, SP Group’s largest
subsidiary, SP Moulding A/S, participates in the Global Compact.

Environment and climate
In accordance with the UN Global Compact, SP Group takes initiatives
to promote greater environmental responsibility and reduce the Group’s
impact on the internal and external environment, and SP Group also seeks
to promote the use of more environmentally friendly technologies and
materials.
It is SP Group’s strategy that all production companies must implement a
certifiable environmental management system which ensures:
• use of environment-friendly products in the production and development processes
• minimisation of waste and refuse as well as resource consumption
• recycling of materials and products to the widest extent possible
• a satisfactory working environment for the employees, prioritising safety
and environmental impacts
With the current energy and raw material prices and the increasing waste
disposal expenses, it is financially sound to reduce energy and raw material
consumption and reduce the waste percentage. Therefore, all plants focus
on these efforts. SP Moulding’s factories have introduced decentralised
grinders on all machines to replace the central grinders. This ensures that
the remaining material from the production of each component is grinded
immediately and led down a closed system together with the plastic material for the next component. In this way, a larger part of the plastic material
is used. Tinby has also improved the processes so materials are now fed
more effectively, which increases the rate of use and reduces waste.
Every month, SP Group examines a number of key figures for consumption
of energy, heating, water and raw materials in all its factories. The results
are used for internal benchmarking and to widely implement initiatives
which, at some plants, have proved to reduce the resource consumption. If
the duty system is changed in Denmark, a greater part of the excess waste
heat can be used for heating. During the year, large investments have been
made in energy saving equipment.

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2014 (average)
13

116

In 2013 and 2014, SP Group carried out tests using recycled plastics for
selected products. The tests are expected to result in commercial production during 2015. Thus, SP Group will contribute to dramatically reducing
not only its own but also others’ environmental impact. The goal is to replace wood from rain forests with plastics from sorted household waste.
The most considerable impact on the environment occurs when SP Group’s
enterprises consume energy (particularly power) and raw materials during
production and divert waste from production. The direct CO2 emission from
the companies is limited, but CO2 indirectly impacts the environment when
power plants produce the power and when products are transported from
SP Group. SP Group has no direct influence on the power plants’ production, but a substantial part of the power is purchased from Danish plants
where the power is produced from renewable energy, primarily wind turbines. In respect of transportation, SP Group selects partners with modern
and environmentally friendly materials. Plastics produced and used with care
have a positive impact on the environment. In environmental life cycle analyses, plastics are generally superior to most alternative materials. Therefore,
an increased use of plastics will reduce the total impact on the environment.
Acid gasses, however, are produced during production of fluoroplastic
coatings, but they are removed in a flue gas scrubber before being led out
through the chimney and are therefore not a nuisance to the surroundings. The use of fluoroplastic coatings is very beneficiary to the environment in many ways. They are, for example, used as corrosion protection in
flue gas purifying plants at coal-fired power plants to avoid acid rainwater.
At the same time, the coating of surfaces with fluoroplastics generates
considerable savings on cleaning materials and solvents as well as water.
Generally, plastics are lighter than metal, and the lower weight can be
used to increase the capacity of transport equipment and, thus, reduce
fuel consumption, which is good for the environment. Obvious examples
include rolling stock like agricultural machinery, tractors, combine harvesters, buses and cars where the exterior parts can be manufactured in plastic
instead of metal, and the plastic lasts for many years – even when used
outdoors – without corroding. The unique insulation properties of polyurethane are used to reduce waste of heat, for example, and to ensure environmentally friendly and efficient district ventilating systems.
Health and safety have been taken into account in the production processes at the individual plants. SP Group continuosly focuses on reducing
the effects of the Group’s acitivites on the cliimate by reducing the water,
electricity and heating consumption and reducing CO2 emissions and the
optimising energy consumption. The goal is to create value for our customers, employees and the local communities in which we operate.
SP Group estimates that it complies with all current environmental regulations and that no enforcement orders remain unsolved anywhere in production. A significant part of SP Group’s products (28% of revenue) is
sold to the cleantech industry, which uses the products for:

Distribution of employees by geographical area in 2013 (average)

38

99

32

10

1

470

580
27

8
2

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Latvia
Poland
England
Netherlands
China
Americas

439

546

Denmark
Sweden
Germany
Poland
Netherlands
China
Americas

28

Management’s review / SP Group

29

CONTENTS

MANAGEMENT COMMENTARY

COMPANY DETAILS

• reduction of energy consumption
• production of alternative energy
• purification of smoke from coal-fired power plants and petrochemical
plants.

Employees
SP Group’s average staff outside Denmark increased by approx. 12.6 % to
785 employees in 2014. The number of employees in Denmark increased
from 439 to 470. Globally, SP Group’s staff increased from 1,180 at the
beginning of the year to 1,310 at year end. On average, there were 1,255
employees in SP Group in 2014. At year end, 37.7% of the staff was
employed in Denmark, and 62.3% was employed abroad. The year saw a
shift of approx. 2 percentage points. Going forward, growth is expected to
take place primarily in Eastern Europe, Asia and the USA.
SP Group complies with the principles of the International Labor Organisation’s convention and the UN Declaration on Human Rights (UNDHR). This
means that the Group will not tolerate child labour or forced labour, will not
employ minors and that any kind of discrimination in working and employment conditions is prohibited. SP Group solely recruits, appoints and promotes
employees on the basis of their qualifications and experience. The employees have the right to freely unionise, express their opinions and participate in
or elect people to participate in collective bodies. At the Danish companies,
the employees appoint representatives for joint consultation committees and
working environment committees where they meet with local management.
At the production units in Poland and China, systems have been established
where the employees appoint spokesmen for negotiations with management.

STATEMENTS

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Board of Directors has determined a goal for the share of the underrepresented gender among the board members elected by the general
meeting of 20% by 2017. The goal has been determined with a time
frame of three years, and at year end, the share of women on the Board
of Directors was 0%. No new members have been elected for the Board
of Directors in 2014.
The Board of Directors of SP Group A/S has prepared a policy in order to
increase the share of the underrepresented gender at all levels of management and to promote diversity in general. The goal is still to fill managerial
posts based on the needed qualifications but to promote diversity when
possible. The long-term goal is for the Company to reflect society and, in
particular, the Company’s customers, both in terms of gender but also in
terms of nationality and ethnicity. This reflection of society should contribute positively to the Company as an attractive company for both customers and current and future employees so that the Company will be able to
fulfil its business goals in the long term. At year end, the share of women
in the general management (Executive Board and management team) was
23%. Reference is made the overview on pp. 24-25. SP Group aims to
ensure that at least one male and one female candidate are among the
top-three candidates for new leadership positions.
Globally, SP Group will support and comply with international human
rights and seek to remedy any violations of these rights. In 2014, SP Group
has not been involved in or experienced violations of human rights in the
Group or at subsuppliers.

Fight against corruption

In Denmark, wages and salaries and working conditions are determined
in collective agreements resulting from local negotiations. In Poland and
China, the conditions and rights of the employees are primarily stipulated
by legislation, codes and regulations. As an employer, SP Group observes
national legislation and collective agreements as well as rules governing
working hours, etc., as a minimum. Moreover, SP Group seeks to offer
employees additional benefits. In recent years, SP Group has closed down
a number of Danish plants and discharged employees. Such measures are
regrettable but necessary to strengthen competitiveness. In connection
with comprehensive dismissals, SP Group complies with the rules of notice
and negotiations with employees, but SP Group also seeks to ease the consequences for the affected employees by taking extra measures. Furthermore, SP Group seeks to improve the employees’ qualifications through
supplementary training and continuing education. The goal is to improve
the qualifications of the employees to enable them to handle different
tasks, which increases production flexibility and provides varied workdays
for the individual employee. SP Group also applies the systematic roll-out
of Lean processes to the plants to enable the employees to influence their
own working situation as well as processes and workflow.

SP Group does not participate in corruption or bribery. Unfortunately, we
are often met with requests for secret commission or the like, which we
refuse.

Distribution of employees (average) 2010-2014

Distribution of employees abroad (average) 2010-2014

SP Group complies with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in
word and action and will sign the Global Compact charter. As of the beginning of 2012, SP Group’s largest subsidiary, SP Moulding A/S, participates
in the Global Compact. The Group will still focus on further promotion of
the use of environmentally friendly technologies and materials and seek to
disseminate knowledge of the unique properties of plastics.
At present, SP Group has no plans to perform extensive systematic CSR
control at the Group’s suppliers of material as the majority of them are
large well-reputed international groups which give a detailed account of
their efforts within corporate social responsibility in information material made available to the public. SP Group performs CSR control at the
Group’s mould suppliers.

1,200

70

1,000

60
50

800

40

600

30

400

20

200
0
2010

30

Continued CSR work

SP Group

10
Plastic
2011

Coatings
2012

Other areas
2013

2014

0

2010

2011

2012

2013

Employees abroad – %

2014

