CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

FOCUS AND MEASUREMENT

NOTE

In order to concentrate efforts and make them explicit and measurable, we regularly single out special CSR themes. This approach is
based on our firm belief that better results are obtained by focusing
on one thing at a time. At the same time, this means that efforts will
evolve over time. We follow up on the themes highlighted one year
by measuring them in subsequent years. This ensures that words
and headlines are transformed into concrete actions and tangible
improvements.

SPAR NORD’S PRINCIPLES
•

Our social responsibility is business-driven the measures we implement must contribute
to our business.

•

Our social responsibility is the sum of local
initiatives - we work to give something back
to the local communities in which we operate.

•

Our social responsibility is well considered we operate and put the main emphasis on
one project at a time.

•

Our social responsibility is focused - we would
rather do one thing with single-minded purpose
than two things halfway.

•

Our social responsibility is dynamic - we evolve
and scale over time.

INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES
Spar Nord supports the Danish Government’s endeavours to put
Corporate Social Responsibility at the top of the agenda, and we also
support the intentions underpinning international initiatives like the
UN Global Compact and UN PRI. Nevertheless, we have chosen not
to formally commit ourselves to the two UN reporting initiatives, nor
does the Bank have formal climate or human rights policies. This
decision should be viewed in light of the fact that we already endeavour to abide by the principles, and also that our activities are
very locally slanted.

2010-12: GENDER & CAREER
From 2010 to 2012, we made the theme Gender & Career our special
area of focus. This particular theme was chosen because the general consensus for decades has been that gender equality leads to
better business. Thus, the theme Gender & Career harmonizes with
the ideal of business-driven social responsibility, its purpose being
to promote gender equality, to maximize talent potential regardless
of gender and to perfect the match between the Bank’s customers
and the staff and executives who advise them.

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, is something we take seriously at Spar Nord and have done for many years. However, the
Bank has traditionally translated this popular term into our own
language and reality, because experience shows that this generates
better defined and more focused action.
From the point of view of Spar Nord, CSR stands for conduct in the
true sense of the word, and not abstract principles. Our basic approach is that Spar Nord’s responsibility as a company and a financial institution is anchored in our close involvement with customers
and the local community. A responsibility and an involvement that
are embedded as given elements in the Bank’s history and culture
and on which the business depends.

Spar Nord

Spar Nord’s commercial target group consists of ordinary retail customers and local businesses. It is therefore desirable for the Bank
to have a broad composition of employees at both the non-executive
and executive levels. In terms of gender, this means that the Bank
aims to be an attractive workplace for both men and women, one
where harmonious interaction exists between working life and private life.

33

Annual Report 2014

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

NOTE

Recognizing that the current reality did not tally with the Bank’s
goals and intentions, Spar Nord launched a targeted action aimed at
increasing the number of women in executive positions. Thus, gender and career have become a joint action area for the Group as a
whole, with action being taken both centrally and locally.

Precisely because this topic is so important, the inclusion of financial insight in school curricula has gained widespread interest both
politically and in the educational and financial sectors. This will entail a lengthy process, but Spar Nord and other financial institutions
can make a vital contribution by developing materials and making
them available.

Highlights among the initiatives implemented:
•
•
•
•
•

Educationally speaking, various aspects of personal finances notably constitute a highly relevant field of instruction - particularly in
maths, but also in social sciences.

Launch of a job bank for employees interested in a career
as an executive
Development and launching of an experience forum/mentor
programme targeted at executive talents
Evaluation of job profiles and recruitment procedures
Integration of gender and career in staff performance appraisals
PhD project on gender and career

Spar Nord’s initiatives
In keeping with the Bank’s business model, Spar Nord has prepared
initiatives based on cooperation with primary and lower secondary
schools in the local community. The goal is to develop a series of
educational materials jointly with experts in maths and didactics
and to make them available free of charge to schools and teachers
that want to cover the subject in their lessons.

Results
In 2014, the number of female managers was unchanged at seven,
corresponding to 14%, while the number of female middle managers rose from 29 to 32, or from 21 to 23%.

The first classroom material was a folder titled ‘Wising up on money’, which caters to children aged 13 to 15 (classes 7 to 8) and addresses topics like interest, savings, loans and currency. This educational folder has now been distributed in more than 50,000 copies to
schools nationwide - and has generally been received very positively.

In 2014, vacancies for 12 new executive and middle manager positions were advertised. 18% of the applicants were women.

2013-14: FINANCIAL INSIGHT

In January 2014, we published ‘The Book on Money’, which targets
the youngest classes and deals with the basics required for understanding finances. The free material is not only aimed at maths
teachers but is also available at Spar Nord’s local banks for parents
who want to discuss these topics with their children. Finally, Spar
Nord’s employees offer to give guest lectures to the relevant age
brackets and to discuss the main topics contained in the material
with them.

As from 2013, ‘Understanding finance’ has been our special focus
area. We chose this theme topic because a number of surveys show
that children and young people extensively lack basic insight into
financial concepts and issues - and thus the competencies required
to act and make decisions affecting one’s personal finances.

In April 2014, the new app ‘Chickenfeed’ will be launched, the purpose of which is to give kids aged 3-5 some basic understanding
of money, coins, prices, etc., via play. In the period since it was
launched and until end-2014, the app was downloaded more than
30,000 times.

Spar Nord

34

Annual Report 2014

