Sydbank’s CSR Report for 2016

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

1

Corporate social responsibility						
– Preface

Corporate social responsibility and sustainability are closely

Sydbank’s CSR report offers an overall perspective of where we

related. At Sydbank we are naturally especially focused on the

currently stand and how we balance our resources at Sydbank

financial side of sustainability in our daily work. And we are very

as well as how we strive to create a sustainable bank. Sydbank

conscious of the responsibility resting on us to create sustaina-

has a strong financial foundation – but being “sustainable” in its

ble finances for our customers and our shareholders but also at

broadest sense involves more than this. This report looks

a societal level where the term used is “financial stability”, but

beyond the financial ratios and addresses the people-related

the meaning is the same: a financial system that works and is

and social obligations involved in running a bank.

sustainable in the long term.
Karen Frøsig
However sustainability is not just about finance – nor for banks.

CEO

It also concerns people and our use of environmental resources.
Also here, what matters is to find the methods and strategies
that are sustainable in the long term. Our resources – human
resources, environmental resources as well as financial resources – must be well-balanced.
Sydbank’s CSR policy was revised and approved by the Board of
Directors in 2016. The purpose of the changes was to simplify
and update the wording as well as to expand reporting on the
bank’s corporate social responsibility in relation to these three
areas – people, the environment and finance.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

2

Corporate social responsibility 					
– CSR at Sydbank

This statutory CSR report for Sydbank is part of the annual

agement solutions and we support the housing market by pro-

report and covers the accounting period from 1 January 2016 to

viding financing options. We also ensure that individuals as well

31 December 2016.

as businesses have easy access to make financial transactions
using the latest technology. And by providing advice we seek to

As a nationwide advisory bank, Sydbank has a significant pres-

contribute to the healthy growth and development in people’s

ence in all parts of Denmark as well as in Northern Germany.

finances on the basis of balanced risks. In this way Sydbank,

Sydbank is a bank for most people but not the same bank for

along with the rest of the financial sector, contributes to finan-

everyone. At Sydbank our organisational structure ensures high

cial stability and cohesion in society.

accessibility and easy access to decisions so we can act quickly.
The long-standing customer relationships are a yardstick of
Sydbank has a solid financial foundation that offers room for

how we do business. As an advisory bank, we focus our efforts

more business with new customers as well as existing custom-

on establishing and nurturing value-creating relationships, and

ers. Our growth must be built on a strong and sound founda-

this carries obligations – because relationships can only endure

tion. We grow through long-term and close relationships with

when we are perceived as a trustworthy and reliable banking

customers and see acquisitions as an opportunity. Sydbank

partner. Our core values – excellence, relationships and value –

wishes to remain a bank operating on its own terms and with

guide us in everything we do. Sydbank seeks in all contexts to

strong partnerships.

create value for all our stakeholders and society at large
through excellence and the ability to create relationships.

We have a clear goal to carry out our role as a bank as effectively and responsibly as possible.

No matter how customers use Sydbank, the customer experience must be simple and seamless. We strive for simplicity and

We are conscious of the social responsibility that comes with

work toward eliminating complexity. We want to be a bank –

being one of Denmark’s leading banks. For instance we help to

pure and simple. Nothing more.

ensure that businesses and individuals have flexible cash man-

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

3

Corporate social responsibility 					
– CSR at Sydbank

Sydbank’s stakeholders

Sydbank’s stakeholders

As a listed company and bank, Sydbank’s first obligation is to its
shareholders. But we are conscious that Sydbank’s growth and
existence also depend on an ongoing dialogue and interaction
with a number of other stakeholders in:
•	 our own organisation
•	 the marketplace

Own
organisation

Marketplace

Society

•	 society at large.
At the end of 2016 Sydbank employed a total of 2,215 people.
13.5% held management positions and the rest were employed

• Employees
• Trade
	organisations

in various specialist functions, advisory functions and support
functions.

• Investors
• Suppliers
• Customers:
	 - Corporate
	 - Retail
	 - Private 	
Banking

• Supervisory
authorities
• Media & press
• Policymakers
• Interest
organisations

In the marketplace Sydbank’s principal stakeholders are its
investors as well as customers and their interest organisations.

latter group takes place mainly through the sector’s interest

The bank’s customers are divided into three main segments:

organisations. Sydbank is a member of the following interest

Corporate, Retail and Private Banking. High priority is placed on

organisations:

being close to customers through local engagement, for

•	 FinanceDenmark (formerly the Danish Bankers Association

instance in local association activities and sports activities.

and the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks)
•	 National Banks in Denmark (formerly Regional Bankers’

In society at large Sydbank’s key stakeholders include authorities, the media and policymakers. The bank’s dialogue with the

Association)
•	 Employers’ Association for the Financial Sector.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

4

CSR 											
– CSR at Sydbank

Updated CSR policy
Sydbank’s focus on enhancing its CSR efforts continued in 2016.

The bank aims to expand its reporting and improve the basis 	

One of the results of this work was the updating of the bank’s

of reporting in these three areas during 2017. This task along

CSR policy. The revised version of the policy was submitted and

with reporting will be carried out by Group Executive

approved at the Board of Directors’ meeting on 15 December

Management Secretariat & Communications in close collabora-

2016. The overall aim of the changes was to simplify and

tion with the bank’s business units.

update the wording as well as to expand reporting on the
bank’s corporate social responsibility in relation to three areas:
• people
• the environment
• finance.

Activity 2016:

Balanced growth in Denmark
In 2016 Sydbank contributed to the debate concerning issues facing the more sparsely populated, peripheral areas of Denmark
by way of two well-attended debates and an economic analysis of business growth and development in outlying areas. The
purpose was to focus attention on the local framework conditions for business growth across the entire country. As a nationwide bank with a significant number of corporate clients, Sydbank is conscious of its responsibility to stay focused on this issue.
Sydbank’s analysis showed that while an increasing number of people choose to settle in urban areas, businesses are more
evenly dispersed across the country.
In other words businesses, which are pivotal to the economy, are defying all talk about ‘peripheral Denmark’ and consequently
there is every reason for policymakers not to focus exclusively on urban growth. Going forward, Sydbank will work to keep this
issue on the public agenda by means of concrete initiatives and analyses.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

5

CSR											
– People
Sydbank strives to be a workplace characterised by high cus-

of employees and their personal priorities, and Sydbank also

tomer satisfaction and employees known for their deep com-

wishes to take into consideration and support the freedom of

mitment and professional skills. We measure our efforts and we

choice of each individual employee.

also have systematic follow-up procedures.
Sydbank has a responsibility to ensure that there is always an
Employee satisfaction surveys are carried out every two years,

open and unbiased selection process in the organisation with-

most recently in 2016, by an independent institute, Rambøll

out any form of discrimination – and that the organisation aptly

Management Consulting, which ensures anonymity in responses.

reflects the labour market’s composition in terms of gender and
other differences such as age, ethnic background and culture.

Sydbank wants its organisation to reflect the diversity of today’s

Diversity in all its forms creates the best and most dynamic

society. We are also sensitive to the needs of employees facing

work climate and this is what we want to focus on at Sydbank.

special challenges such as serious illness or personal difficulties
and wherever possible we will help to find a solution. In 2016

When recruiting people, a guiding point at Sydbank is however

special flex job and vocational rehabilitation schemes for

that both genders are represented among the final three candi-

employees at Sydbank corresponded to 14 full-time positions.

dates. The overall gender distribution at Sydbank was 53%
female and 47% male in 2016. In recent years Sydbank’s Board

In 2016 Sydbank worked on developing a new staff induction

of Directors has consisted predominantly of men and conse-

programme that will be implemented in 2017. The programme

quently Sydbank’s current target is to have two women share-

aims to ensure a more uniform introduction to Sydbank for new

holder-elected board members by 2019 to ensure diversity. The

employees.

female representation on the Board of Directors was increased
by one shareholder-elected member in 2016, which means that

Equality and non-discrimination

one of the bank’s eight shareholder-elected board members is a

Sydbank wants to ensure that in general all employees have

woman.

equal access to participation and promotion in the organisation
regardless of age, gender, ethnic background or culture. This is

The share of women in management positions (managers with

the main reason why we monitor the gender balance at

staff responsibilities) at Sydbank was 32% in 2016.

Sydbank. However Sydbank has not set a specific gender composition target as in practice it also depends on the free choice

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

6

CSR											
– People
Customer satisfaction
Sydbank measures customer satisfaction systematically by

es the bank to maintain its dialogue-oriented approach to all

means of two different surveys carried out by external market

customers.

research companies. Customer satisfaction in the corporate segment is measured by Aalund and EPSI covers the retail segment.

In 2016 Sydbank achieved a third place in Aalund’s survey of
customer satisfaction in the corporate segment and came in

Sydbank’s ambition is to achieve a top three ranking among the

fifth in EPSI’s survey of customer satisfaction in the retail seg-

six largest banks in Denmark in both categories. This encourag-

ment.

Activity 2016:

Agriculture package
The Danish agricultural sector has struggled since
the financial crisis. Falling settlement prices for milk
in particular have not helped the situation. The
government’s agriculture package, which was

The selected farms
are characterised
by eg:
• negative equity
• high efficiency

introduced in spring 2016, opened up new
possibilities for debt conversion for debt-ridden
farmers and Sydbank decided to lead the way with
an innovative model. The model involves converting
selected farmers’ bank debt to subordinated loan
capital that, subject to certain conditions, may be
redeemed by the farmer at a price to be agreed after
a number of years. The subordinated loan is free of
interest during this period.
When the bank debt has been converted, the
assessment should be that the farm in question
offers perspectives from the point of view of the
farmer as well as Sydbank.
The underlying basis for the model is that some
farms are efficiently run and well managed despite
burdensome debt.
Sydbank’s agricultural initiative should be seen as a
strong example of how corporate responsibility from
the bank’s perspective can go hand in hand with
broader social responsibility and customer-oriented
solutions.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

7

CSR											
– Environment
Sydbank works systematically to minimise the environmental
footprint of its business operations. This applies in particular to

Sydbank’s electricity consumption 2015-2016

its buildings where the ambition is to provide the best possible
working environment and level of comfort for employees while
having the lowest possible energy consumption as regards
heating, cooling and electricity.
In 2016 Sydbank’s premises had a total floor area of 105,784m2.
The buildings are located all over the country and vary greatly

-6.4% -98 tonnes

in terms of size, age, use and requirements.

Reduced
electricity
consumption

Electricity accounts for the largest part of the energy used in
the bank’s operations. In 2016 Sydbank’s electricity consump-

Reduced emission of
greenhouse gases
(CO2 equivalents)

tion totalled 6.98 million kWh, which is 6.4% lower than the
year before. Since Sydbank’s total floor area declined by 3.6%

The reliability of critical servers and IT also requires a UPS sys-

during the same period, the actual reduction in Sydbank’s elec-

tem to ensure a stable power supply in case of irregularities or

tricity consumption was 2.9% per square metre. In terms of

breakdowns in the electricity grid. Sydbank’s UPS system was

environmental impact, the decline in Sydbank’s electricity con-

upgraded in 2015. The investment in the latest technology has

sumption from 2015 to 2016 has reduced the emission of

resulted in less noise, a reduced need for cooling and a signifi-

greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents) by a total of 98.4 tonnes.

1

cant decrease in energy consumption. Overall the system is
expected to reduce electricity consumption and generate sav-

Sydbank expects to further reduce its electricity consumption

ings of DKK 500,000-600,000 a year and at the same time it

by 2 kWh per floor square metre in 2017.

guarantees 100% reliability. Some of the savings were achieved
already in 2016 but further visible gains are expected in 2017.

Sydbank’s head office in Aabenraa uses considerably more electricity per square metre than the bank’s other buildings. One of

Sydbank has installed central real-time monitoring of electricity

the reasons is that the costs for energy used by the bank for

consumed in buildings corresponding to 88% of the bank’s total

instance to cool and ventilate server rooms are paid via the

floor space, which is why the figures for electricity consumed are

head office.

reliable and valid. The figures in this report have not been adjusted for weather conditions and climate variations. During 2017
Sydbank will work on refining reporting on energy consumption.

CO2 emissions based on the 125% method and an estimated
transmission loss of 5%, cf Energinet.dk’s calculator.

1

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

8

Corporate social responsibility 					
– Finance
As one of Denmark’s systemically important financial institu-

•	 The scope of reporting to the Board of Directors has been

tions (SIFI), Sydbank complies with more stringent capital

widened to include reports on credit approvals deviating from

requirements and is also in close dialogue with supervisory

the credit policy.

authorities regarding statutory requirements and compliance.

•	 Only Credits, the Executive Group Management and the

Revised credit policy

	 policy. Credits is responsible for collection and reporting to

Board of Directors can approve deviations from the credit
The bank’s guidelines regarding lending are set out in its credit
policy, which was revised in 2016. Sydbank’s credit policy forms
the basis of lending to customers. The solutions offered must at

the Board of Directors.
•	 In addition the section on controls has been expanded and
clarified in some areas.

all times be on an informed and well-founded basis and ensure
that customers have healthy and sustainable finances.

Responsible asset management and investment advice
Sydbank manages significant portfolios in investment markets –

The most important new elements in the credit policy are as

on behalf of the bank and on behalf of its customers – and is

follows:

mindful that environmental, social and corporate governance

•	 More specific guidelines concerning the bank’s requirements

(ESG) issues are taken into account in terms of the companies

relating to retail customers as regards assets, disposable

invested in.

amount and leverage (debt relative to household income) in
order to ensure that a customer’s financial situation is sus-

This is why Sydbank signed the UN Principles for Responsible

tainable in the long term.

Investment (UN PRI) in 2010 and consequently the bank incor-

•	 Guidelines on requirements regarding the interest rate sensitivity that a customer must be able to manage for the cus-

porates ESG principles formulated in the UN Global Compact
into its investment decisions.

tomer’s finances to be considered sufficiently robust. This
applies to both retail clients and corporate clients. As regards

Sydbank collaborates with GES Investment Services (GES) in

retail clients with home financing, the new best practice rules

order to monitor investment markets to ensure that invest-

issued by the Danish FSA have been included in the credit

ments made by Sydbank live up to the ESG principles for

policy.

responsible investment and the UN Global Compact.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

9

Corporate social responsibility 					
– Finance

emerging markets. In several cases the response was good and

Proactive engagement –
responsible investment via GES in 2016

is improving as businesses gain confidence in the engagement
process and acknowledge the value of the input provided by
GES and Sydbank. Engagement activities focus primarily on
companies that have violated widely accepted international conventions and norms concerning environmental and social issues
as well as companies that can be associated with very high
environmental and social risks and at the same time have very
low readiness levels to tackle these risks.

Developed markets
• Active engagement with 		
32 companies.
• Total of 37 different cases 	
concerning:
	 - violations of labour rights (14)
	 - human rights (11)
	 - environmental issues (6)
	 - corruption (6).

Emerging markets
• Ongoing cases: 140
• 88 company visits
• 8 conference calls.

In addition to the collaboration with GES, Sydbank has initiated
an internal screening procedure of markets that are considered
to be problematic in terms of ESG principles. As a result of the
screening an internal list is updated every quarter.
Measures against money laundering and terrorist financing
Sydbank collaborates with the authorities to combat financial
crime and money laundering as stipulated in the Danish

In 2016 GES, on behalf of Sydbank, actively engaged with 32

Consolidating Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering

companies in developed countries about 37 different cases.

and Financing of Terrorism. Sydbank acknowledges that banks’

Focus was solely on companies that have violated widely

corporate social responsibility includes contributing to this

accepted international conventions and norms concerning envi-

important task.

ronmental and social issues. 14 of these cases concern violations of labour rights, 11 cases concern human rights, 6 cases

The bank’s contingency measures are reinforced on an ongoing

concern environmental issues and 6 cases concern corruption.

basis in the form of risk assessments, identification procedures
in connection with new customer relationships as well as manu-

In emerging markets this involved 88 visits and 8 conference

al and automatic screening of customers’ transactions. In addi-

calls with businesses in Africa, the Middle East, the Far East and

tion all Sydbank’s advisers attend courses on anti-money laun-

Latin America in 2016. GES has ongoing engagement cases on

dering rules. These courses were also held in 2016.

behalf of Sydbank involving more than 140 businesses in

Activity 2016:

Fantasy share trading game
For a number of years Sydbank has encouraged young people
to learn more about financial markets by organising a fantasy
share trading game for a target group ranging from 8th 	
grade lower secondary school students to business academy
students. Sydbank made its digital simulation platform available also in 2016, which was used by more than 2,000 students from all over the country. Each player is given DKK 		
1 million in demo funds and competes to generate the best
return during a specific competition period.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

10

Corporate social responsibility 					
– Finance
In order to prevent transactions related to terrorist financing,

Sydbank does not wish to take part in any financial transaction

Sydbank has implemented an automatic screening process on the

where motives or business practices may be called into question,

basis of sanctions lists from the EU, UN, USA, FATF etc. Sydbank

regardless of its legality.

will continue to focus on combating money laundering and financial crime in 2017.

IT security – externally and internally
In our everyday life where for instance banking transactions and

Tax Governance

purchases are made digitally, it is especially important to focus on

Since 2013 Sydbank has participated in a joint project called Tax

security and safety issues. In collaboration with other players in

Governance with SKAT, the Danish tax authorities, to strengthen

the financial sector we regularly discuss the implementation of IT

the cooperation on a swift and efficient clarification of the

security legislation and how we can further improve IT security.

Group’s fiscal and tax issues. Via the cooperation – which is based
on mutual openness and trust – the Group is able to learn about

Via our policy regarding safety issues and IT security, all employ-

SKAT’s position on concrete fiscal and/or tax issues including:

ees are encouraged to comply with the bank’s guidelines for the

•	 prompt replies to specific questions about fiscal and tax mat-

safe use of the internet, email and systems and software. In addi-

ters concerning implemented as well as contemplated trans­

tion monitoring by means of internet filters is carried out to avoid

actions

viruses so that our systems remain safe for our sake and for the

•	 ongoing dialogue with SKAT where Sydbank is able to discuss

sake of our customers.

problems as they arise, which saves resources for Sydbank as
well as the authorities in terms of a later review of the income

Security controls are made available to our customers. We sup-

tax return.

port FinanceDenmark’s campaigns and use social media as an

And this contributes to minimising future risks.

additional tool to tell customers about IT security and IT threats.
This information and advice is also available at sydbank.dk and

As a financial undertaking, Sydbank carries out an important

via Sydbank Hotline.

social task by reporting information to SKAT which forms the
basis of the automatic issue of annual statements for a significant

Sydbank Hotline helps customers who need technical assistance

number of Danish taxpayers. Via Tax Governance contributions

in connection with using our electronic applications and sydbank.

are made on an ongoing basis to enhance the general quality of

dk. Sydbank Hotline can for instance help customers check their

reporting, which makes tax collection efficient and simple for the

computers for viruses and help them with updates that are nec-

authorities as well as customers.

essary to increase security.

Activity 2016:

Money Week
Sydbank participates in Money Week, organised by
FinanceDenmark, which targets 7th and 8th grade lower
secondary school students, by visiting schools and giving
talks to students. The aim of Money Week is to improve
students’ financial literacy. More than 21,000 students
from 1,035 classes at 660 schools took part in Money
Week in 2016. Sydbank held 1.7 guest talks in each of the
bank’s nine regions in 2016 and expects to increase its 	
participation to at least three guest talks per region in 2017.

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

11

Corporate social responsibility						
– Sponsorships and local engagement
Sydbank’s approach to sponsorships is influenced by the bank’s

given to the contestants who receive the largest support for their

commitment to local relationships and dialogue. Our primary

nomination and the rest are chosen by a jury on the basis of their

focus is on contributing locally and supporting projects that help

videos.

create local value and relationships. Sydbank helps to support
and develop local association activities and sports activities in

2016 was the second year that the summer camp was held. 461

particular via its sponsorships, most of which are given locally via

young riding enthusiasts entered the competition and around

Sydbank’s nine regions.

91,000 votes were given by visitors to the site. The riding camp
also got tremendous exposure on social media – 350,000 views

Sydbank Summer Camp

on Instagram and as many as 16 million views on Facebook. The

In addition to the many local sponsorships we help to make a dif-

goal to create interest in horse riding was achieved and the initia-

ference to the many people who are interested in horse riding via

tive will be repeated in 2017.

our main sponsorship of the Danish Equestrian Association.
Handball camps
In collaboration with the Danish Equestrian Association, Sydbank

Based on a similar objective to support the interest for sports,

has established a summer camp for young horse riding enthusi-

Sydbank also collaborates with the Danish Handball Association

asts. The camp has room for 26 young people and during an

to organise handball camps during the summer and half-term

extended weekend in late summer they are trained by some of

school holidays.

the top equestrian names and have an unforgettable experience
with lots of social activities with other horse riding enthusiasts.

Every year around 10,000 children aged from 5 to 15 take part in
the handball camps. Aside from the financial contribution,

The initiative was developed to promote the interest for riding –

Sydbank is actively involved in a number of related activities

at an elite level and an amateur level – and many more than just

before, during and after the camps, for instance training coaches,

the 26 participants are engaged in connection with the event. To

distributing drinking bottles and other equipment as well as

enter the competition interested young people upload a nomina-

activities on social media.

tion video to the summer camp’s website. A couple of places are

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

12

Corporate social responsibility						
– Sponsorships and local engagement
Sydbank’s funds
In 2016 Sydbank’s funds, Sydbank Fonden and Sydbank

This kind of local support and the purpose of the project are

Sønderjyllands Fond, gave DKK 6.3 million to 426 recipients with

characteristic of a large number of the donations made by

dreams of carrying out cultural or other general interest projects.

Sydbank’s two funds.

A contribution to improve the acoustics in the main room of the

In 2016 Sydbank Fonden also awarded 60 travel grants of DKK

village hall in Aarø is an example of a typical donation made by

10,000 to young students at some of the country’s business col-

Sydbank Fonden. The acoustics were so poor that ordinary con-

leges, upper secondary schools and vocational colleges repre-

versation was almost impossible when there were large gather-

senting a wide cross-section of Sydbank’s area of operations.

ings. With a concrete contribution for the renovation, Sydbank
Fonden has helped – quite literally – to promote dialogue and
conversation in a small local community in what is often referred
to as peripheral Denmark.

Regional/
local sponsorships

Nationwide
sponsorships

DKK
2.4m

DKK
8.0m

Sydbank
Sønderjyllands Fond

Sydbank
Fonden

DKK
4.4m

DKK
1.9m

Student travel grants

Trelleborg
Fonden

DKK
0.6m

DKK
2.1m

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

13

Corporate social responsibility						
– Key figures

Table 1

Table 2

Employees – key figures 2016
Number of employees

Corporate governance – key figures 2016
2,215

1

Number of employees, full-time equivalent
(FTE) 1
Gender balance, all employees

2,037
F: 53%

Percentage of employees in management
positions 2
Gender balance, management staff 2

M: 47%
13.5

F: 32%

M: 68%
14

Flex jobs (FTE) 3
Average employee satisfaction 2016

Attendance rate at board meetings 2

95%

Percentage of women board members
elected by the Shareholders’ Committee 3

12.5

Average age of board members elected
by the Shareholders’ Committee 4

1

At year-end.

2

	Employees with staff responsibilities for one or more employees.

3

	Employment involving various public subsidy schemes (fulltime equivalent).

4

	Analysis by Rambøll Management Consulting. Employee satifaction is measured on a scale from 1 to 5, where 5 is best. All
the survey’s questions carry an equal weight from which the
average is calculated. The 2016 survey consisted of 63 questions.

57

1	

Includes physical meetings only. In addition the Board of
Directors holds conference calls, takes part in training days and
a strategy seminar.

2

Includes members elected by the Shareholders’ Committee
and members elected by the employees.

3

Equivalent to 1 in 8.

4

At year-end.

3.9

4

12

Number of board meetings held 1

Table 3
Donations (DKKm)
Nationwide sponsorships
Regional/local sponsorships

2016
2.4
8.0

Sydbank Fonden

4.41

Sydbank Sønderjyllands Fond

1.93

Trelleborg Fonden

2.11

Student travel grants

0.6

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

14

Corporate social responsibility						
– Key figures

Table 4
Electricity consumption
Sydbank – total m2 *
Total – electricity kWh/m2
KPI departments m **
2

KPI departments – electricity kWh/m2
Head office m

2

Head office – electricity kWh/m

2

2016

2015

2014

2013

105,784

109,728

116,300

118,136

66

68

72

73

71,991

75,466

78,729

81,585

54

53

56

57

21,274

21,274

21,274

21,274

135

137

156

135

*	 Includes all floor space, including unused floor space, basements, storage rooms etc.
** Staffed buildings with automatic reading – excluding head office in Aabenraa.
Table 5
CO2 accounts – electricity consumption

2016

2015

2014

2013

Total emissions of CO2 and CO2 equivalents (tonnes)*

1,432

1,531

2,577

3,249

*	 Emissions based on the 125% method and an estimated transmission loss of 5% using Energinet.dk’s calculator. Part of the reduction
is attributable to the transition to more climate friendly production methods at the source. The environmental declaration from 2015
was used for 2016 as the 2016 declaration was not available at the time of going to press.
Table 6
Water – m2 and consumption per m2
Sydbank – total m2
Total – water l/m2
Head office – m2
Head office – water l/m2

2016

2015

2014

2013

100,398

103,691

109,028

111,514

137

143

147

143

21,274

21,274

21,274

21,274

212

204

214

212

Table 7
Heat – m2 and consumption per m2 *
Sydbank – total m2
Total – heat kWh/m2
Head office – m

2

Head office – heat kWh/m2

2016

2015

2014

2013

95,562

98,779

105,456

107,296

69

68

63

79

21,274

21,274

21,274

21,274

47

52

47

59

* Not adjusted for climate variations.
	

SYDBANK / CSR Report for 2016

15

