COrPOrATE SOCiAL rESPONSiBiLiTy STATEmENT

In addition to carrying on profitable business activities, TK
Development aims to adhere to and expand the Group’s ethical, social and environmental responsibilities as a business
corporation.
TK Development fundamentally endorses the UN’s ten corporate social responsibility principles, and the Group only
carries on activities in countries that have already incorporated human rights, employee rights and anti-corruption principles in their national legislation.
However, TK Development has yet to introduce policies that
integrate corporate social responsibility in all key areas of its
strategy and activities. The Group targets and implements its
corporate social responsibility measures as described below.
Employees and working environment
The know-how, networks, talents and expertise of TK Development’s employees make them a significant competitive asset. Consequently, the Group is dedicated to giving its
employees an attractive working environment in which they
can develop.
This means showing respect for and taking an interest in the
individual employee. The Group aims, wherever possible, to
be flexible, for example by accommodating employees who
need to reduce their working hours or the like due to serious
illness or for other reasons.
The Group has a consistent and transparent staff policy with
room for diversity and development. In addition, the Group
offers an employee benefits programme aimed at ensuring the
employees’ personal development, job satisfaction and health
while also maintaining a focus on providing the best possible
working conditions and environment across the Group. The
ultimate goal is to foster a staff team of highly motivated and
committed employees.
Thus, TK Development has generally succeeded in keeping
work absence due to illness and the staff turnover rate satisfactorily low.
The local community
TK Development strives to design projects that support
growth in the local community. The Group’s business concept plays a role in strengthening the local business environment and lifting local employment.

eration agreements with local players in the culture and sports
sectors.
Environment
TK Development is keenly aware that the public eye is sharply
focused on environmental optimization throughout the construction process. Public concerns include the reduction of
CO2 emissions and the sustainability of building projects.
When the Group acquires sites for its projects, the land is
examined to determine any contamination. If a plot is contaminated, the Group cleans up the land for its intended use
before starting construction or refrains from buying the relevant plot.
When developing projects, the Group strives to achieve the
best possible balance between environmental and social
concerns while also generating revenue for the Group. The
choice of materials, design, energy consumption and environmental impact all form part of such considerations.
The Group aims to complete projects without causing unnecessary environmental impact. Consequently, TK Development cooperates with tenants and investors to establish appropriate environmental solutions when developing and implementing new projects. For instance, the Group seeks to
create finished projects with low energy consumption and a
good indoor climate that will provide a comfortable working
environment for future employees.
When designing large and small shopping centres, TK Development attaches weight to ensuring the availability of convenient public transport options for customers.
Suppliers and safety at construction sites
On-site safety is a prime concern for TK Development at
all stages of project construction. To this end, TK Development sets out precise requirements for correct and adequate
on-site safety measures in all its construction contracts and
requires all Group employees to comply with all safety regulations when visiting or working at the construction site. The
Group’s own engineers constantly supervise construction sites to ensure compliance with all safety regulations.
In addition, TK Development obligates its suppliers to guarantee correct and optimum handling of construction waste.

The Group develops its projects together with local politicians, organizations, tenants and investors, thus integrating the
needs and wishes of all stakeholders to reach the best possible solution for everyone involved.

Anti-corruption
As stated above, TK Development only carries on activities in
countries where anti-corruption principles have been implemented in applicable law. However, the Group is aware that
a risk of corruption may exist in a few of the countries in
question, primarily as a result of cultural conditions.

The Group’s dedicated efforts in the local community also
mean that TK Development enters into sponsorships/coop-

TK Development does not accept corruption.
Reference is also made to www.tk-development.dk

Corporate Social responsibility Statement | TK Development A/S | Annual Report 2009/10 45/122

