STATuTOry ANNuAL COrPOrATE SOCiAL rESPONSiBiLiTy STATEmENT

In addition to carrying on profitable business activities, TK
Development intends to adhere to and expand the Group’s
ethical, social and environmental responsibilities as a business corporation.
TK Development fundamentally endorses the UN’s ten social responsibility principles, but has not acceded to the
UN Global Compact. The Group only carries on activities
in countries that have already incorporated human rights,
labour standards and anti-corruption principles into their
national legislation.
The Supervisory Board has yet to introduce policies that
integrate corporate social responsibility in all key areas of
its strategy and activities.
The Group targets and implements its corporate social responsibility measures as described below.
Employees and working environment
The know-how, networks, talents and expertise of TK Development’s employees make them a significant competitive asset. Consequently, the Group is dedicated to giving
its employees an attractive working environment in which
they can develop.
This means showing respect for and taking an interest in
the individual employee. Within the scope of its available
options, the Group aims to show flexibility, for example by
accommodating employees who need to temporarily reduce their working hours or the like due to serious illness
or for other reasons.
The Group has a consistent and transparent staff policy that
allows room for diversity and development. In addition,
the Group offers an employee benefits programme aimed
at ensuring the employees’ personal development, job
satisfaction and health while also maintaining a focus
on providing the best possible working conditions and
environment across the Group. The ultimate goal is to
foster a staff team of highly motivated and committed
employees.
Thus, TK Development has generally succeeded in keeping
work absence due to illness and the staff turnover rate satisfactorily low.
In future, TK Development will also focus on employee job
satisfaction and maintain the current level of employee
benefits.
The local community
TK Development strives to design projects that support
growth in the local community. The Group’s business

36/123

TK Development A/S | Annual Report 2010/11 | management's review

concept plays a role in strengthening the local business
environment and lifting local employment.
The Group develops its projects together with local
politicians, organizations, tenants and investors, thus
integrating the needs and wishes of all stakeholders to
reach the best possible solution for everyone involved.
Thus, the employees in the Group acquire important knowhow about the various stakeholders’ needs and wishes.
This helps ensure swift decision-making processes and efficient progress in the development of individual projects
in the Group.
The Group’s dedicated efforts in the local community also
mean that TK Development enters into sponsorships/cooperation agreements with local players in the culture and
sports sectors.
Green building
The Group is experiencing increasing demand for green
buildings from both tenants and investors. TK Development offers to construct green buildings as and when requested by the Group’s customers. A case in point is the
Group’s retail park in Danderyd, Sweden, which has been
constructed as a “Green Building” according to current
Swedish standards. TK Development has succeeded in
having the Group’s Sillebroen shopping centre in Frederikssund, Denmark, certified according to BREEAM standards,
achieving the “Very Good” rating. It has also been decided
to obtain BREEAM certification of the Group’s projected
shopping centre in Esbjerg, Denmark, with the aim of
achieving the “Good” or “Very Good” rating.
Environment
TK Development is keenly aware that the public eye is
sharply focused on environmental optimization throughout
the construction process. Public concerns include the
reduction of CO2 emissions and the sustainability of
building projects.
When the Group acquires sites for its projects, the land is
examined to determine any contamination. If a plot of land
is contaminated, the Group will clean up the land for its
intended use before starting construction or refrain from
buying the relevant plot.
When developing projects, the Group strives to achieve
an optimum balance between environmental and social
concerns while also generating revenue for the Group. The
choice of materials, design, energy consumption and environmental impact all form part of such considerations.
The Group aims to complete projects without causing unnecessary environmental impact. TK Development cooperates with tenants and investors to establish appropriate
environmental solutions when developing and implementing new projects. For instance, the Group seeks to create
finished projects with low energy consumption and a good
indoor climate that will provide a comfortable working environment for future employees.

TK Development does not tolerate bribery and is against
any form of corruption. Management is not aware of any
cases of corruption.
Reference is also made to www.tk-development.dk/csr

Several of the Group’s projects completed in the 2010/11
financial year were built with energy efficiency in mind.
Reference is made to the description of green buildings
above.
In relation to IT in the Group’s own offices, the use of centralized operation and virtualized servers has been introduced, which has resulted in cost savings as well as lower
energy consumption. In addition, TK Development strives
to purchase IT equipment that is Energy Star compliant.
When designing large and small shopping centres, TK Development attaches weight to ensuring the availability of
convenient public transport options for customers. In the
Czech Republic, the Group’s Fashion Arena Outlet Center in
Prague enjoys several public transport links, for example a
free shuttle bus from the metro station to the outlet centre. In Denmark, one of the entrances to the Group’s Sillebroen shopping centre, Frederikssund, has direct access
to bus terminals, train station, etc.
Suppliers and safety at construction sites
On-site safety is a prime concern for TK Development at all
stages of project construction. To this end, TK Development
sets out precise requirements for correct and adequate onsite safety measures in all its construction contracts and
requires all Group employees to comply with all safety regulations when visiting or working at the construction site.
The Group’s own engineers constantly supervise construction sites to ensure compliance with all safety regulations.
In addition, TK Development obligates its suppliers to guarantee correct and responsible handling of construction
waste.
As a result, TK Development has achieved a zero occupational injury rate during work on the Group’s building sites.
Anti-corruption
As stated above, TK Development only carries on activities
in countries where anti-corruption principles have been
implemented in applicable law. However, the Group is
aware that a risk of corruption may exist in a few countries,
primarily as a result of cultural conditions.

management's review | TK Development A/S | Annual Report 2010/11 37/123

