ANNUAL
REPORT
2013

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

Corporate Social Responsibility
Since its foundation, UIE has invested in the agro-industrial sector, particularly palm oil. As
we invest in compan ies that depend on natural resources, we have an in herited interest to
act in an environ mentally and socially responsible man ner and hereby secure the long-term
basis for our business.
As a listed investment holding company, we strive to attain acceptable long-term returns,
wh ile maintain ing the important balance between economy and care. We believe that
the best way to do th is is to invest in compan ies that are operated and developed in an
environ mentally and socially responsible man ner.
We support the implementation of corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) in our associated
company (UP) as well as in our two portfolio investments (AAK and MSAB), and we expect
them to:
•
•
•

protect the environ ment and natural resources by applying environ mentally responsible
production methods;
secure the well-being of their employees by providing good and safe working conditions;
and
uphold human rights and be responsible members of the com mun ities they are part of.

To be effective, UIE believes that corporate social responsibility should be adopted locally
and in ways suited to meet the actual needs on ground. UP, AAK and MSAB are operated
and developed in environ mentally and socially responsible man ner. A detailed account
of their CSR com m itments is available in their an nual reports, sustainability reports and
websites.

50

UP: The Kingham-Cooper
Endangered Tree Species
Reserve at the UIE(M) Estate
has to date a total of more
than 12,000 tropical trees
constituting about 250 diverse
tree species. This will become
a valuable source of seeds
that will be used to establish
additional areas with these
endangered trees and thereby
create a true bio-diversity of
tree species at UP.

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

ANNUAL
REPORT
2013

The following CSR h igh lights clearly illustrate that corporate social responsibility is an
integral part of UP’s core business.

UP:
UP’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy focuses on continuous care, com m itment and
responsibility towards its employees, the environ ment, the com mun ity and the marketplace
in wh ich it operates. UP remains com m itted to conducting business in a man ner that
ach ieves sustainable growth wh ilst maintain ing a h igh degree of social and environ mental
responsibility.
A vital part of UP’s CSR Policy is its com m itment to the Principles and Criteria of The
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm O il (“RSPO ”). For generations, UP has focused on
maintain ing social and environ mental awareness and striving to the best of its abilities to
create a balance between economy and ecology. Th is focus resulted in the world’s first RSPO
certificate being awarded to UP in 2008.
In O ctober 2013, during the launch of The Malaysia Chapter of the UN Sustainable
Development Solutions Network (UN-SDSN ), UP was cited as one of the foremost
compan ies in development of sustainable solutions in Malaysia. In the SDSN Malaysia
Chapter UP was identified as a “Business with a soul”. Th is acknowledgment accentuates
UP’s com m itment to being a leader in econom ic, environ mental and social sustainability.
CSR is a continuous process, and UP aims to align business values, purposes and strategy
with the following CSR principles, divided into four main areas as follows:
Employees
UP h ires, educates and trains its employees in a safe, healthy, open and honest working
environ ment and aims to be recogn ised as the Employer of Choice.
UP’s com m itment towards improving social amen ities remains a hallmark with in the
company. Continuous improvements were made during 2013 to maintain the h ighest
possible welfare standards for employees, wh ich among other in itiatives includes building
several new staff quarters and modern employees’ houses.
UP continues to provide a number of social welfare in itiatives to its employees and their
fam ilies as well as the local com mun ity by maintain ing ch ild care, primary schools, wellequipped hospitals and health clin ics, places of worsh ip for employees, bus subsidies for
school ch ildren, a bakery and a sen ior citizen home.
In addition, 53 scholarsh ips were granted to ch ildren of employees during 2013 thereby
enabling these students to pursue their tertiary studies.

51

ANNUAL
REPORT
2013

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

Community
UP believes in building good relationsh ips with the com mun ities in wh ich they operate and
contributes to being an active contributor th rough econom ic support and social contribution.
UP has taken the in itiative to start up Smallholders’ Field Day. Farmers from the local districts
in Malaysia are invited to the plantation to get a better understanding of good agricultural
practices, sustainability in itiatives and environ mental protection. They are trained in
safe handling of pesticides, optimal harvesting procedures and fertilizer application. The
in itiative will steer the farmers away from illegal logging, slash-and-burn activities etc. and
thus help turn th is negative impact on the environ ment.
At the Indonesian Plantations, UP is actively involved with a govern ment project known
as the Plasma Scheme, designed to assist smallholders to become independent plantation
growers. Under the Plasma Scheme, UP’s role is to help local smallholders in supplying the
necessary resources (including the land being developed), train ing in developing oil palm
plantations, wh ich includes environ mentally responsible land clearing and cultivation as
well as econom ic aid. O nce developed, the plantation will be handed over to the smallholder
for self-management.
Marketplace
UP proves h igh quality products and services to customers worldwide, th rough people and
tech nology. UP continuously strives to improve its products and services and works towards
building long-term relationsh ips with all stakeholders th rough dialogue and feedback.

52

UP: The company maintains
eight primary schools and six
kindergartens on its properties
in Malaysia, providing education for almost 500 children
aged 5 to 12 years.

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

ANNUAL
REPORT
2013

Environment
UP strives towards being recogn ised as the leader in sustainable agricultural practices,
respecting the balance between economy and ecology. UP is com m itted to continuously
reducing the environ mental impact of its operations by improving/optim izing procedures,
m in im izing waste and implementing new and greener tech nologies.
Sign ificant investments have been made in promoting green energy starting with the fully
integrated biomass reciprocating boiler and constructing four biogas plants. These projects
combined have since helped to sign ificantly reduce em issions of CO 2 by 70% and CH 4 by
80% at the operating un its.
In 2014, the comprehensive Life Cycle Assessment (“LCA”) will be updated once again.
The ongoing updates of the LCA reports continue to provide UP with a comprehensive and
clear overview of the results of the company’s efforts to reduce its carbon footprint and help
identify areas where further improvements can be made.
The LCA report shows that the green energy investments have helped reduce the an nual
em issions of green house gasses by a m in imum of 125,000 MT CO 2 (eq). Thereby, the
company has met its target of reducing the carbon footprint per ton ne of refined palm
oil produced by 40% in 2013 when compared to previous 2005 levels. In 2014, additional
investments will be made to further reduce the carbon footprint, and it is anticipated that it
will be reduced by 45% when compared to previous 2005 levels.
UP is continuously working towards a dynam ic and in novative waste management and
utilization system aimed at ach ieving zero waste. For many years, UP has been working
towards m in im izing or phasing out the use of pesticides via the Integrated Pest Management
Program me and towards increasing the use of eco-friendly and natural insecticides. Today,
UP’s use of pesticides is four-five times lower per ton ne produced oil, compared to rapeseed
farmers, and about 36- 40 times lower compared to soybean oil farmers.
More than 6,000 hectares have been set aside for conservation purposes (jungle reserves,
wildlife sanctuaries and green corridors) to encourage biodiversity and wildlife on UP’s
estates. In order to develop effective conservation strategies, UP and Copen hagen Zoo have
formed a partnersh ip, and a biodiversity department was established on UP’s Lada Estate
in Indonesia. The biodiversity department is responsible for mainstream ing environ mental
concerns into standard operational procedures and focus on activities primarily with in
biodiversity, habitat and ecosystem, forestry and rehabilitation.
Find more in formation about UP’s com m itment to CSR in the company’s An nual Report
and at www.un itedplantations.com

53

