
Corporate social responsibility
LCP’s policies regarding corporate social responsibility comprise partly our working environment and partly business
partners and suppliers. We do not expect to make material
capital investments as a result of the planned initiatives within corporate social responsibility. Moreover, we do not expect
that the activities will require significantly increased administrative resources compared with previously.
ENVIRONMENT
LCP is an emerging speciality pharmaceutical company
without significant production facilities, and hence the
Group’s consumption of energy and other natural resources and its discharges of substances into the air and water
are limited. LCP routinely works with chemical substances
which place stringent demands for comprehensive environmental and safety efforts to minimize adverse effects
on the environment and human health. The Group complies with applicable legal requirements, directives and international agreements in the area.
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
The objective of our working environment policy is to create continuous improvements in relation to the safety,

health and workplace satisfaction of our employees. In
order to continuously improve and ensure that LCP remains a safe workplace, we have implemented policies
which we adhere to:
• Statistics of the employees who are absent due to the
working environment.
• Statistics of incidents and nearby incidents related to
working environment.
• Established a WESO (work environment safety organization) group which meet five times a year.
• Internal audit performed annually to ensure that all
safety policies are adhered to.
In 2010 the Danish Working Environment Authority performed an inspection of our facility, and we received the
highest possible rating.
Further in 2010 we passed an inspection of our Danish
facility, performed by the Danish Medicinal Agency with
satisfactory result.
Further we have established policies and procedures to
ensure that we continue to meet both internal and external requirements in the future from both regulatory and
other authorities.

BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS
LCP’s policy for business partners and suppliers is to work
to promote good business conduct and reasonable environmental and social standards with those with whom we
do business.
Our policy for business partners and suppliers is incorporated into our quality assurance system. When entering
into agreements with external business partners and suppliers we ensure that we have a right to make control visits to our external business partners and suppliers to ensure that our requirements are met.
On a continues basis we perform an audit of all of our
major external business partners and suppliers, to ensure
that all of our quality requirements are adhered to.
This information forms the statutory report on corporate
social responsibility according to the Danish Financial
Statements Act, Section 99a.
