Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility
Policy

vestjyskBANK’s Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) sets out
the Bank’s voluntary efforts to integrate social and environmental
considerations into its business activities and stakeholder partnerships.

Responsibility

vestjyskBANK’s Supervisory Board maintains general responsibility for
drafting the Bank’s CSR Policy. The practical responsibility has been
delegated to HR.

Scope of
Application

The present policy applies to all employees.

Vision,
Mission and
Values

Vision
 vestjyskBANK will be an attractive and reputable financial partner;
 vestjyskBANK will be a recognised, local and regional bank that creates
value for its customers and shareholders via a customer-customised
concept;
 vestjyskBANK will realise solid core earnings by implementing continuous
efficiency measures;
 vestjyskBANK will ensure the quality of its loan portfolio measured by
both creditworthiness and returns through steadfast focus on credit
management;
 vestjyskBANK will work proactively with both the size and structure of its
balance sheet through sharp focus on its lending and controlled growth
in deposits for the purpose of generating robust liquidity; and
 vestjyskBANK will endeavour to strengthen the creditworthiness of its
loan portfolio and thereby achieve an impairment ratio that is at the
average level of Group 2 banks.
Mission
To provide our customers with the financial freedom they need through
steadfast and responsible banking.
 To have our customers serviced by “complete individuals” who share
their basic values;
 To have both the Bank and our customers experience value creation—
which will result in mutual loyalty;
 To ensure that personal contact and service remain top priorities; and
 To make vestjyskBANK an attractive workplace that attracts and retains
highly dedicated employees.
Values
Based on vestjyskBANK's values–Steadfast, Attentive, Competent and
Dynamic–the Bank's ambition is to be an attractive partner for both retail
and business customers. The Bank’s revenue-generating customers'

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

present and potential needs must be met with strong professional and
personal competencies. This task is handled by expert and dedicated
employees who see personal contact and service as an absolute top
priority.
 Steadfast—The core of how we operate our business. Our drive to remain
steadfast is at the core of the Bank's basic values. Our steadfast conduct
is reflected in the Bank's honesty, responsibility and trustworthiness. As
far as the Bank is concerned, a deal is a deal, and the Bank remains loyal
to its customers and colleagues.
 Attentive—Commitment and responsiveness to others. We keep an open
mind and remain committed to listening to people and finding out who
people are. The Bank seeks to understand and learn from the people
around it through respect and dialogue.
 Competent—The ambition to appear professionally and socially capable.
The Bank's employees must have the capacity and authority to make
decisions and deliver the advice and service to which our customers are
entitled. Everything the Bank does must be of value to the individual
customer as well as the Bank.
 Dynamic—The Bank is prepared to change and take the initiative to
benefit its customers, its shareholders and to grow its employees. The
Bank must constantly be at the forefront to identify new opportunities—
and be ready to seize those opportunities when they arise.

Customers

vestjyskBANK aspires to provide expert, professional advisory services. We
offer simple and clear products based on the individual customer’s financial
situation and needs.
For investing, we offer the products Værdipleje and Puljeordning: The first
focuses on asset management, the latter specialises in pooled funds.
These products contain only securities that are easily understood by
customers. Other securities are offered to customers only upon request.
At vestjyskBANK, we always place our customers’ needs for advisory
services front and centre; and we primarily base our decisions on
individual assessments and long-term considerations.
Customers are an indispensable part of our business. It is therefore
important to vestjyskBANK that they be given every opportunity to provide
feedback to their advisors and the capacity to submit complaints via our
website. Our customer relationships are characterised by maintaining the
highest ethical standard.
At vestjyskBANK, employee remuneration is not permitted to influence the
advice we give customers. For this reason, vestjyskBANK does not give
performance bonuses or offer incentive plans to Management or any of its
employees.
Under the law, our employees are subject to a duty of confidentiality,
which gives our customers added protection.
At the present time, vestjyskBANK has not taken a position on whether
there are objectives/sectors to which we do not wish to provide loans. We

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

have also not taken a position on investing in securities based on the
perspective of accountability.

Employees

It is important for vestjyskBANK that our vision be implemented in our
day-to-day work. Our vision must be followed not only in our employees’
contact with customers but also among our employees themselves.
The Bank must be an attractive workplace that attracts and retains
dedicated employees who are offered competency-relevant and personal
growth through continuous training.
vestjyskBANK’s ambition is to be a healthy workplace. The Bank’s staff is
offered resources to avoid occupational injuries, most significantly carpal
tunnel syndrome. Every year vestjyskBank organises such activities as
“Exercise in the Workplace” and “Let’s bike to work.”
Workplace evaluations are carried out every 2½ years. vestjyskBANK has
a well-functioning Occupational Environment and Works Committee and a
local agreement whose purpose it is to strengthen and streamline
collaboration relating to the work environment and other areas of
cooperation for the benefit of both vestjyskBANK and individual
employees.
A workplace care policy designed to meet the needs of employees in crises
has been implemented. Such crises can include serious illness, divorce,
death, abuse, smoking, and sick leave.
Employees can take out private health insurance policies at favourable
terms from Codan Care.
The Bank prioritises employee requests for flexitime and pays employees a
fixed consideration that may, among other things, be used for healthy
snacks in the workplace. vestjyskBANK has employees who work flex jobs.
vestjyskBANK also maintains a pensioners’ club for retired long-term
employees so that they can stay in touch with the Bank.

Community

vestjyskBANK prioritises involvement in the local community. This is
evidenced in vestjyskBANK’s many sponsorships of sports, culture and
charitable causes. The sponsorships cover a wide array of
organisations—from local athletic associations to elite sports—and our
employees and executives boost donations by performing volunteer
work in various associations.
To vestjyskBANK, it is important that students looking for a future in the
financial sector be given the opportunity to complete their studies and
subsequently obtain employment in the sector. Each year, it is therefore a
priority for us to give a number of financial economy students and finance
undergraduate students the opportunity for attend traineeships in the
Bank as they complete their studies. The Bank’s plan is to recruit financial
and business trainees after completing their financial economist or finance

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

bachelor studies.

Environment Internally, our eco-friendly efforts include pre-sorting waste, so that non-

confidential papers are sent for recycling; and lights are switched on or off
by motion sensors in newly built and remodelled premises in order to
reduce our energy consumption.
We have also established videoconference facilities, so that we can reduce
travel to and from meetings, etc. We expect that our use of
videoconferencing vis-à-vis physical meetings will continue to increase.
We aim to contribute to a cleaner environment and a more healthy way of
living— but we also rely on each individual's own initiative. We have
therefore posted information about energy and the environment on
vestjyskBANK’s website.
vestjyskBANK has not issued any supplier requirements.

Human
rights and
climate
impact

vestjyskBANK is committed to the Danish government’s efforts to place
human rights and climate change high on the agenda. However, as a local
bank we have a particularly local emphasis and therefore do not have any
specific policies in these two areas.

December 2015

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

