Statutory Report on Corporate Social
Responsibility
vestjyskBANK’s Policy for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) details its voluntary efforts
to integrate social and environmental considerations into its business activities and
stakeholder partnerships.
It is vestjyskBANK’s Supervisory Board that maintains overall responsibility for preparing
the Bank’s CSR Policy.
Vision
vestjyskBANK will be the most attractive financial partner in the market.
vestjyskBANK will be a recognised, regional bank that creates value for its
customers and shareholders via a full-service concept.
vestjyskBANK will maintain solid core earnings by implementing and executing
continuous efficiency measures.
vestjyskBANK will ensure that it can maintain a high-quality loan portfolio—
measured by both creditworthiness and returns—by intensifying its focus on credit
management.
vestjyskBANK will work proactively with the composition of its balance sheet
through a controlled reduction in lending and a controlled increase in deposits for
the purpose of narrowing the gap between loans and deposits.
vestjyskBANK will work to achieve an impairment ratio that is at the average level
of Group 2 banks.
Mission
We provide our customers with the financial freedom they need through steadfast and
responsible banking.
At vestjyskBANK customers will be serviced by “complete individuals” who share a
common set of values.
Customers as well as the Bank will experience value creation—which will result in
mutual loyalty.
Personal contact and service remain high priority.
The Bank aspires to be an attractive workplace that attracts and retains highly
dedicated employees.
Values
Based on vestjyskBANK’s values—steadfast, attentive, competent and dynamic—the
Bank’s ambition is to remain an attractive partner for both retail and business customers.
We will endeavour, with our solid professional and personal capabilities, to always put our
revenue-generating customers' present and potential needs front and centre. This task is
handled by expert and dedicated employees who see personal contact and service as an
absolute top priority.
Steadfast—the core of how we operate our business. Our drive to remain steadfast
is at the core of our basic values. Our steadfast conduct is reflected in our honesty,
responsibility and trustworthiness. As far as we are concerned, a deal is a deal, and
we remain loyal to our customers and colleagues.
Attentive—commitment and responsiveness to others. We keep an open mind and
remain committed to listening to and discovering other people. We seek to
understand and learn from the people around us through respect and dialogue.
Competent—the ambition to appear professionally and socially capable. Each of us
must have the capacity to make decisions and deliver the advice and service to

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

which our customers are entitled. Everything we do must be of value to the
individual customer.
Dynamic—we are prepared to change and take initiative to benefit our customers,
the Bank and to grow as colleagues. We must constantly be at the forefront,
identify new opportunities—and be ready to seize those opportunities when they
arise. A dynamic environment can only be created alongside others—positive
energy is infectious. We all need that in our daily lives.
Customers
vestjyskBANK aspires to provide expert and professional advice to our customers. We offer
simple and clear products based on the individual customer’s financial situation and needs.
In terms of investing, we offer the products Værdipleje, which focuses on asset
management, and Puljeordning, which deals with pooled funds. These products contain
only securities that are easily understood by customers. Other securities are offered to
customers only upon request.
At vestjyskBANK, we always place our customers’ needs for advisory services front and
centre; and we primarily base our decisions on individual assessments and long-term
considerations.
As our customers are an indispensable part of our business, it is important to
vestjyskBANK that they be given every opportunity to provide feedback to their advisor
and submit complaints via our website. Our customer relationships are characterised by
maintaining the highest ethical standard.
At vestjyskBANK, employee remuneration cannot be permitted to influence the advice we
give customers. For this reason, vestjyskBANK does not give performance bonuses or offer
incentive plans to Management or any of its employees.
Under the law, our employees are subject to a duty of confidentiality, which gives our
customers added protection.
At the present time, vestjyskBANK has not taken a position on whether there are
objectives/sectors to which we do not wish to provide loans. We have also not taken a
position on investing in securities based on the perspective of accountability.
Employees
It is important for vestjyskBANK that our vision be implemented in our day-to-day work.
Our vision must be complied with not only in our employees’ contact with customers but
also among our employees themselves.
vestjyskBANK’s ambition is to be a healthy workplace. Employees are offered resources to
avoid occupational injuries, most significantly carpal tunnel syndrome. To this end,
vestjyskBANK has also established projects such as “Get into a healthy habit,” and every
year the Bank organises such activities as “Workplace exercise” and “Let’s bike to work.”
Workplace assessments are carried out every 2½ years. vestjyskBANK has a wellfunctioning Occupational Environment and Works Committee and a local agreement whose
purpose it is to strengthen and streamline collaboration relating to the work environment
and other areas of cooperation for the benefit of both vestjyskBANK and individual
employees.

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

A workplace care policy has been implemented that aims at attending to the needs of
employees in crises, such as serious illness or in case of divorce or death, abuse, smoking
and sick leave.
Employees can take out private health insurance policies at favourable terms from Codan
Care.
The Bank prioritises employee requests for flexitime and sets aside a fixed consideration
for employee care—an amount that may, among other things, be used for healthy snacks
in the workplace. vestjyskBANK has employees working in flex jobs.
For retired long-term employees to be able to stay in touch with the Bank, vestjyskBANK
also maintains a pensioners’ club.
Community
vestjyskBANK prioritises local community involvement. This is evidenced in
vestjyskBANK’s many sponsorships of sports, culture and charitable causes. The
sponsorships cover a wide array of organisations—from local athletic associations to elite
sports—and our employees and executives boost donations by performing volunteer work
in the associations.
To vestjyskBANK, it is important that students looking for a future in the financial sector
be given the opportunity to complete their studies and subsequently obtain employment in
the sector. Each year, it is therefore a priority for us to give a number of financial
economy students and finance undergraduate students the opportunity for traineeships in
the Bank as they complete their studies. The Bank’s plan is to recruit financial and
business trainees after completing their financial economist or finance bachelor studies.
Environment
Internally, our eco-friendly efforts include pre-sorting waste, so that non-confidential
papers are sent for recycling, and lights are turned on or off by motion sensors in newly
built and re-modelled premises in order to reduce our energy consumption.
We have also established videoconference facilities, so we can reduce travel to and from
meetings, etc. We expect that our use of videoconferencing vis-à-vis physical meetings
will continue to increase.
vestjyskBANK wants to contribute to a cleaner environment and a more healthy way of
living—but we prefer to leave it to each individual's initiative and discretion. We have
therefore posted information about energy conservation and the environment on
vestjyskBANK’s website.
vestjyskBANK has not issued any supplier requirements.
Human Rights and Climate Change
vestjyskBANK is furthermore committed to the Danish government’s efforts to place
human rights and climate change high on the agenda. However, as a local bank we have a
particularly local emphasis and therefore do not have any specific policies in these two
areas.

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

