Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Vestjysk
Bank A/S

Policy

This policy on Corporate Social Responsibility has been prepared based on section
99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act.

Responsibility

The scope of the policy is to establish how the bank responds to the areas covered
by the provision.

Scope of
Application

This policy applies to all employees.

Vestjysk Bank’s
corporate social
responsibility
and business
model

Vestjysk Bank is part of the local and regional community and as such
wishes to be an active player that stimulates positive development in the
local communities and creates a positive development for the bank’s
customers.
Also, Vestjysk Bank has an ethical responsibility as a societal player in the banking
sector. This means that the bank in its work with corporate social responsibility has a
special focus on the development of the local areas through its activities as a bank.

Principles of
Vestjysk Bank´s
corporate social
responsibility

Vestjysk Bank’s principles for corporate social responsibility are described under the
following five headings:
• environment and climate
• community,
• employees,
• human rights, and
• anti-corruption and bribery.

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ 7620 Lemvig ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

Environment and To the greatest extent possible, Vestjysk Bank will ensure that energy-saving and
eco-friendly solutions are applied.
climate
Internally, our eco-friendly efforts include pre-sorting of waste, whereby nonconfidential papers are being recycled; and lights are switched on/off by motion
sensors in newly built or refurbished premises in order to reduce energy
consumption.
Also, we have established video conference facilities, so that we can reduce travel to
and from meetings, etc. We expect that the use of video conferencing will increase
in the years to come. Vestjysk Bank to the greatest extent possible aims at utilizing
digital solutions in respect of all types of documents, thereby avoiding having to
print.
Vestjysk Bank aims to contribute to a cleaner environment and a more healthy way
of living for everyone - but we also rely on each individual’s own initiative. We have
therefore posted information about energy and the environment on Vestjysk Bank’s
website.
Vestjysk Bank has not issued any supplier requirements.
Vestjysk Bank is committed to the Danish government's efforts to place human
rights and climate change high on the agenda. However, as a local bank we have a
particularly local aim and therefore we have no specific policies in these two areas.

Community

Vestjysk Bank prioritises involvement in the local community. This is reflected in
Vestjysk Bank's many sponsorships in sports, culture and charitable causes. The
sponsorships cover a wide array of organisations - from local sports clubs to elite
sports - and our employees and executives boost donations by performing volunteer
work in various clubs.
To Vestjysk Bank it is important that students looking for a future in the financial
sector, be given the opportunity to complete their studies and sebsequently obtain
employment in this sector. Each year, it is therefore a priority for us, to give a
number of financial economy students and finance undergraduate students the
opportunity to become trainees in the bank as they complete their studies. It is the
bank’s intention to recruit financial and business trainees once they have completed
their financial economist or finance bachelor studies.

Employees

Vestjysk Bank must be an attractive workplace that attracts and retains dedicated
employees, who are offered competency-relevant and personal growth through
continuous training.
It is Vestjysk Bank’s ambition to be a healthy workplace. Employees are offered
resources to avoid occupational injuries and in particular injuries caused by
excessive use of mouse. Every year, Vestjysk Bank organises activities such as

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ 7620 Lemvig ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

"Exercise in the Workplace" and "Let's bike to work".
Workplace evaluations are carried through every 2½ years. Vestjysk Bank has a wellfunctioning Workplace Environment Committee and a Works Committee as well as a
local agreement the purpose of which is to strengthen and streamline collaboration
relating to the work environment and other areas of cooperation for the benefit of
both Vestjysk Bank and the individual employees.
A workplace care policy designed to meet the needs of employees in crises has been
implemented. Such crises include serious illness, divorce, death, abuse, smoking and
absence due to illness.
Employees can take out private health insurance on favourable terms through Codan
Care.
The Bank prioritises employee requests for flex-time and pays employees a fixed
consideration that may, among other things, be used for healthy snacks in the
workplace. Vestjysk Bank has employees who work flexible jobs. Vestjysk Bank
prioritises involvement in the local community. This is reflected in Vestjysk Bank's
many sponsorships in sports, culture and charitable causes. The sponsorships cover
a wide array of organisations - from local sports clubs to elite sports - and our
employees and executives boost donations by performing volunteer work in various
clubs.
The Bank on competitive terms offers, among other things, supplementary training,
health insurance, pension plan, canteen scheme, the option of 5 or 6 weeks' holiday,
family days and a senior employee policy.
Vestjysk Bank also maintains a pensioners' club for retired long-term employees, so
that they may stay in touch with the Bank.

Human rights

Vestjysk Bank treats everybody equally, regardless of race, gender, sexual
orientation, political affiliation etc. and has in this respect prepared a policy for
diversity.
No customer or employee must at any time be subject to discrimation, just as the
bank and its employees must at all times respect the individual person’s human
rights as set out in national legislation and international conventions.

Anti-corruption
and bribery

Vestjysk Bank will never in any situation or at any level take part in corruption or
bribery.

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ 7620 Lemvig ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

Review

Compliance with the policy on corporate social responsibility will on a current basis
be reviewed by Vestjysk Bank’s audit committee, including in particular in
connection with the annual publication of the “CSR Report for Vestjysk Bank A/S”.

Updates

The Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility is updated as required on a current
basis and at least once annually.
It is primarily the responsibility of the Board of Directors to prepare Vestjysk Bank's
Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility. In practice the responsibility has been
delegated to HR.

December 2016

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ 7620 Lemvig ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

