Statutory Report on Corporate Social
Responsibility
vestjyskBANK’s Policy for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) details the Bank’s
voluntary efforts to integrate social and environmental considerations into our business
activities and partnerships with our stakeholders.
vestjyskBANK’s Supervisory Board maintains general responsibility for preparing the
Bank’s CSR Policy.
Vision
vestjyskBANK will be the most attractive financial partner in the market.
vestjyskBANK will be a recognised, regional bank that creates value for its
customers and shareholders via a full-service concept.
vestjyskBANK will maintain solid core earnings by implementing continuous
efficiency measures.
vestjyskBANK will ensure that it can maintain a high-quality loan portfolio
measured by both creditworthiness and returns by intensifying its focus on credit
management.
vestjyskBANK will work actively with the composition of its balance sheet through a
controlled reduction in lending and a controlled increase in deposits for the purpose
of narrowing the gap between loans and deposits.
Mission
Our steadfast and responsible approach to banking gives our customers the financial
freedom they need.
At vestjyskBANK, our customers will be serviced by “complete people” who share
their basic values.
Both the Bank and our customers will experience value creation, which will result in
mutual loyalty.
Personal contact and service will be a high priority.
The Bank will be an attractive workplace that attracts and retains dedicated
employees.
Values
Based on vestjyskBANK’s values—steadfast, attentive, competent and dynamic—our
ambition is for the Bank to be an attractive partner for both retail and business customers.
A partner that, with its strong professional and personal capabilities, will put our revenuegenerating customers' present and potential needs in the forefront. This task is handled by
expert and dedicated employees who see personal contact and service as a high-priority
area.
Steadfast—the core of how we operate our business. Our drive to remain steadfast
is therefore also at the core of our basic values. Our steadfast conduct is reflected
in our honesty, responsibility and trustworthiness. As far as we are concerned, an
agreement is an agreement, and we remain loyal to our customers and colleagues.
Attentive—commitment and responsiveness to others. This is about keeping an
open mind and be committed to listening to and discovering other people. Through
respect and dialogue, we will seek to understand and learn from the people around
us.
Competent—the ambition to appear professionally and socially capable. Each of us
must have the capacity to make decisions and deliver the advice and service to
which our customers are entitled. What we do must be of value to the customer.

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪ Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

Dynamic—we are prepared to change and take initiative for the benefit of our
customers, for the Bank and for our employees’ development. We must constantly
be at the forefront, identify new opportunities—and be ready to seize those
opportunities. A dynamic environment is created together with others, and positive
energy is infectious. We need that in our daily lives.
Customers
vestjyskBANK aspires to provide expert and substantive advisory services. We offer simple
and clear products based on the individual customer’s financial situation and needs.
In terms of investing, we offer the products vestjyskVÆRDIPLEJE
(vestjyskASSETMANAGEMENT) and vestjyskPENSIONSPULJE
(vestjyskPENSIONPOOLEDFUNDS), which contain only securities easily understood by our
customers. Other securities are offered to customers only upon request.
At vestjyskBANK, we always place our customers’ needs for advisory services front and
centre; and we primarily base our decisions on individual assessments and long-term
considerations.
Since our customers are an indispensable part of our business, it is important to
vestjyskBANK that they be given the opportunity to provide feedback to their advisor and
submit complaints via our website. Our relationships with our customers are characterised
by maintaining the highest ethical standard.
At vestjyskBANK, the remuneration of employees cannot be permitted to influence the
advice we give customers. vestjyskBANK therefore does not give bonuses or have
incentive plans to either Management or its employees.
Under the law, our employees are subject to a duty of confidentiality, which gives our
customers added protection.
At the present time, vestjyskBANK has not taken a position on whether there are
objectives/sectors to which we do not wish to provide loans. We have also not taken a
position on investing in securities based on the perspective of accountability.
Employees
It is important for vestjyskBANK that our vision be implemented in our day-to-day work.
Our vision must be followed not only in our employees’ contact with customers but also
among our employees themselves.
vestjyskBANK endeavours to be a healthy workplace. Employees are offered resources to
avoid occupational injuries, most significantly carpal tunnel syndrome. vestjyskBANK has
also established such programmes as “Get into a healthy habit” (health checkups),
“Workplace exercise” and “Let’s bike to work.”
Workplace assessments are carried out every 2½ years. vestjyskBANK has an wellorganized Occupational Environment and Works Committee and a local agreement whose
purpose it is to strengthen and streamline work environment partnerships and other areas
of collaboration for the benefit of both vestjyskBANK and individual employees.
A care policy has been implemented for the workplace that aims at caring for employees in
crises, such as serious illness, or in the event of divorce or death, abuse, smoking and sick
leave.

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪ Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

Employees can take out private health insurance policies at favourable terms in Codan
Care.
The Bank prioritises employee requests for flextime and pays employees a fixed
consideration that may, among other things, be used for healthy snacks in the workplace.
vestjyskBANK has employees working flex jobs.
For retired long-term employees to be able to stay in touch with the Bank, vestjyskBANK
maintains a pensioners’ club.
Community
vestjyskBANK prioritises involvement in the local community. This is evidenced in
vestjyskBANK’s many sponsorships of sports, culture and charitable causes. The
sponsorships cover a wide array of organisations—from local athletic associations to elite
sports—and our employees and executives boost donations by performing volunteer work
in the associations.
To vestjyskBANK, it is important that students looking for a future in the financial sector
be given the opportunity to complete their studies and subsequently obtain employment in
the sector. Each year, it is therefore a priority for us to give a number of financial
economy students and finance undergraduate students the opportunity for traineeships in
the Bank as they complete their studies. The Bank’s plan is to recruit financial and
business trainees after completing their financial economist or finance bachelor studies.
Environment
Internally, our eco-friendly efforts include pre-sorting waste, so that non-confidential
papers are sent for recycling, and lights are turned on or off by motion sensors in newly
built and remodelled premises in order to reduce our power consumption.
We have also established videoconference facilities, so we can reduce travel to and from
meeting, etc. We expect that our use of videoconferencing will increase over the next
years.
vestjyskBANK wants to contribute to a cleaner environment and a more healthy way of
living—but we prefer to leave it to each individual's initiative. We have therefore posted
information about energy and the environment on vestjyskBANK’s website.
vestjyskBANK has not issued any supplier requirements.
Adopted at the Supervisory Board Meeting on 12 December 2012

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪ Denmark ▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

