STATUTORY REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
(cf. SECTION 99 a OF THE DANISH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACT)
This report covering the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a supplement to the Directors
Report in the Zealand Pharma A/S Annual Report for the period 1 January - 31 December 2012.
CEO statement
Zealand Pharma A/S (Zealand) has made a pledge to formalize and disclose the core values that have
underwritten our success, in which corporate social responsibility has played an important part. To
acknowledge and further develop this facet of our business, Zealand draws from the most pertinent
elements of some of the most widely implemented CSR initiatives in the world, notably the Global
Reporting Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact.
Zealand has found in these two systems complementary frameworks for both guiding and reporting its
CSR activities along several principles in the areas of human rights, the environment, labour and anticorruption. In addition to these, we have supplemented a provisional category for animal rights owing to
the unique exigencies of our industry.
Zealand’s CSR report does not reflect a static system of initiatives and policies. It is an ongoing process
that adapts to accommodate new ideas and activities to keep the company up to date with the
developments within this area.
CSR Steering Group & Strategy
To improve the transparency of its corporate social responsibility, the company has elevated CSR
questions from the CSR Steering Group to Zealand´s Executive Management. The following focus areas
have been considered important to Zealand’s business and operations:






Labour Practices & Decent Work
Occupational Health & Safety
Animal Rights
Environmental Sustainability
Anti-corruption & Pharmaceutical ethics

These focus areas are an amalgamation of existing Zealand values and policies together with the
principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) where they apply to the scope of the
company’s business. It was important to this process that Zealand compared its pre-existing policies
against the consolidated framework of the UNGC, which has served the dual purpose of an
internationally ratified CSR diligence standard and a reporting model. The CSR Steering Group has
chosen to give particular emphasis to those areas which are unique to the Zealand’s business as a
biotechnology and research corporation with a diverse range of strategic partnerships. These areas are
animal rights, occupational health and safety and finally pharmaceutical ethics. However, given that
Zealand does not currently have any marketed or commercialized drugs, there are many issues specific
to the pharmaceutical industry that does not fall within the scope of Zealand’s CSR initiatives.

1

Labour Practices & Decent Work
Zealand is cognisant that the wellbeing of its employees is important to its broader success.
Zealand has in place an Employee Manual to reflect the culture of its employees and workplace. With
respect to its policies, Zealand has taken as its starting point Danish Labour Law and in some cases gone
above and beyond what is required of public companies in order to be more considerate of and
responsive to the exigencies of its workforce.
Zealand is also committed to the continued education and training of its employees, and in almost all
cases fully or partly finances those programs undertaken by Zealanders. This policy has proven to have
synergistic benefits for both company and employee. Zealand takes very seriously its employee
evaluations (MUS evaluations) to both increase the level of vertical integration within the company and
maintain a culture of transparency and constructive criticism.
Zealand’s culture and policy is rooted in a philosophy respectful of diversity and as such is fully
compliant with Danish regulation regarding equal opportunity employment and equal remuneration for
men and women. Additionally, Zealand actively promotes an open, inclusive environment for its
employees, and has adopted English as its primary language to accommodate its substantial cohort of
international employees. The company has also been open-minded and forward thinking in its
employment development programs for PhD candidates and trainees, which are only now starting to
become apart of the orthodoxy for Danish company hiring practices.
A yearly employee satisfaction study is performed and measures the results from initiatives from the
previous year as well as identifies areas for improvement going forward. As an example the percentage
of employees that were satisfied or very satisfied to be part of Zealand increased to 98.7% (93.5) in
2012.
Occupational Health & Safety
Further to its policies on Labour Practices & Decent Work, Zealand has taken great care in ensuring the
safety of its workplace for all employees. The Company’s Worker Environment Committee oversees the
ongoing maintenance of working facilities in accordance with the strictest national standards, and is in
constant liaison with those external evaluators who perform inspections twice annually.
All Zealand employees are trained under standard safety protocol, through which they are given the
tools to manage their own occupational safety. Under this program, Zealand has had no incidents of
significant injury in 2012, as measured by days of absenteeism or convalescence taken due to workrelated injury. In 2012, Zealand and its Worker Environment Committee have also instituted a “NearAccident” Reporting Initiative to build on the Company’s strong safety track record and safeguard
against potential future accidents. In 2012 seven “near accidents” were reported.
General health and wellbeing at Zealand is also taken seriously, and the company facilitates the good
health of its employees with gym and exercise facilities, as well as healthy food options.

2

Animal Rights & Welfare
Animal rights and welfare is one of the unique areas of the biopharmaceutical industry deserving
particular attention when it comes to corporate social responsibility. Zealand’s philosophy towards
animals is respectful, and reflective of the company’s profound appreciation for their contribution to the
advancement of science and medicine. Danish law stipulates yearly inspections of the animal facilities,
as well as comprehensive reporting protocols overseeing experiments conducted during the year,
processed through the governmental agency Dyreforsøgstilsynet. The occupational flow of information
and reporting, upward from lab technician to academic to department head, ultimately ensures a
centralized destination for all of the company’s pharmacology data, which is duly recorded, organized
and sent to the regulatory authorities.
On top of its legal requirements, Zealand conducts voluntarily monthly veterinarian inspections of its
animal facilities. In 2012, there were no reported incidents of negligence.
Wherever possible, the company selects in vitro over in vivo experiments, making every effort to use
lower order animals when in vivo experiments are required, and as few as possible in all cases. The
necessity of animal experiments to Zealand’s research and development activities cannot be overstated,
and thus the company constantly strives for the greatest vigilance and care in its treatment of animals.
Environmental Sustainability
Zealand recognizes that it could stand to make improvements in areas of environmental sustainability.
In 2012, water use and emissions fell within a reasonable range of what might be expected for a
company of Zealand’s size and type, but the company fared less well in terms of energy use. This can be
accounted for in large part by the demanding central heating and aeration requirements of the research
facilities. As a matter of occupational safety, the air in the laboratories is replaced with great frequency
to ensure it remains clean. Year round, but particularly during the winter, the incoming air must be
climate controlled—filtered and heated—while the outgoing air is released as an emission. In the
Glostrup industrial park region, property users are graded on scale of A-E for their energy use, and
Zealand have to report that it has achieved the E grade in 2012. Regrettably, the company’s energy use
is not likely to significantly decrease in the near term. Zealand leases the use of its facilities in Glostrup,
Denmark, and thus is financially disincentivised from making improvements whose benefit will be
captured chiefly in the distant future.
Zealand did in the end of 2011 invest in a new video conference room, which has served to significantly
reduce the travel costs. As an example most of the project meetings relating to the collaboration with
Boehringer Ingelheim have been performed using this equipment. Indirectly, this investment will
contribute reduced energy expenditure, fuel use, and emission generation.
Anti-Corruption and Pharmaceutical Ethics
Zealand strives to safeguard its business against corruption and non-compliance where its employees
are most at risk. The following categories are those most relevant to the company and its stakeholders:

3

Corruption & Compliance
Zealand actively promotes and maintains a policy of transparency and honesty with its employees.
Zealand’s “Employee Handbook” stipulates a set of policies which specify the company’s standards for
its employees’ good and legal conduct.
Insider Trading
Zealand has taken every precaution to keep all its employees, board members, and certain stakeholders,
fully educated in and compliant with the company’s Insider Rules. The company distinguishes carefully
between those who are listed on its permanent “Insiders List,” and those who come into contact with
what is deemed “Insider Information.” In the latter case, Zealand takes every precaution to keep an
updated list concurrent with changes in certain employees’ knowledge of information regarding the
company’s strategically material events.
Pharmaceutical Ethics
The company has strict policies regarding the proper use and transfer of intellectual property. Since its
founding, Zealand has been able to refine its confidentiality and material transfer agreements to reflect
the critical changes of the industry, building on the extensive industry experience of many of its senior
members. Zealand’s quality and reputation as a business and scientific collaborator are of the utmost
importance to its strategic future, and it is therefore in the company’s and its stakeholders’ best
interests that Zealand employees are educated and kept abreast of policies regarding the proper and
legal management of external intellectual property.
Zealand has in 2012 had no indication of any violations of the above categories.

4

