ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT

Environmental policy
All human activity impacts on the surrounding
environment. This also applies to the production
and use of Bang & Olufsen’s products.
Bang & Olufsen continually strives to minimise
environmental impact and achieve a balance
between such impact and our products’ qualities,
economic viability, lifetime and aesthetics. Our wish
is to be among the best in the industry – also within
the environmental area. We wish to communicate
openly about environmental issues and publish an
annual environmental statement. We comply, of
course, with current legislation at all times.
We wish to contribute to globally sustainable
development and assess our activities from a life
cycle perspective, which involves several phases:
Development (concept, design and construction)
In this creative process, the product’s environmental
properties are determined. The aim is to reduce
environmental impact during the subsequent life
cycle phases.
Raw materials
Our choice of materials aims at avoiding materials
that can give rise to environmental issues.
Production
In our choice of production methods and production
equipment, cleaner technologies have high priority.
We prioritise the near environment and the creation
of a safe and healthy working environment for our
employees. Our objective is to improve the physical
as well as the psychological working environment.
When selecting suppliers we ensure that they have an
appropriate attitude towards the environment and act
accordingly. We wish to maintain a continuing
dialogue with each individual supplier to create the
right environmental conditions for the part of the
product’s life cycle for which the supplier is responsible.
Transport
We make environmental demands on our transport
operators in terms of a high degree of utilisation and
optimum application of technology for the transport
units.

Application
Our aim is for our products to be enjoyed problemfree in the customer’s home environment, that the
products have an extended life and a low energy
consumption.
Disposal
Our aim is to provide product parts that are suitable
for recycling, and that major parts can be identified
when dismantled in order to ensure appropriate
disposal and recycling.
Environmental issues
The Bang & Olufsen logo is a guarantee of quality.
We want our customers to buy Bang & Olufsen
products in the knowledge that we have made
intelligent decisions on their behalf – also in respect
of environmental issues.
Based on life cycle analysis of our products, we know
that the biggest environmental impact from Bang &
Olufsen’s products is energy consumption while in
use. Consequently, it has been obvious for us to
focus our efforts on reducing stand-by consumption
since this is often regarded as a pure waste of energy.
Bang & Olufsen is, to a great extent, at the cutting
edge of the latest EUP directive1.
Packaging is yet another focus area. While the
purpose of packaging is to protect the product
during handling, storage and transport, it is,
however, often seen as a waste of resources as well
as a disposal problem. We employ materials that can
be re-used after disposal. Packaging for the majority
of our products consists of cardboard boxes where
the product is secured by two shells of expanded
polystyrene (EPS). Both cardboard and EPS can be
recycled or incinerated after use. Legislatively, the
area is covered by the EU’s packaging directive2
which prescribes minimising packaging.
In October 2007, BeoCenter 6-26 won the
Scandinavian packaging award, Scanstar, given
for new, space-saving packaging. The box for the
BeoCenter 6 is kept to a minimum so that it only
accounts for 60 per cent of the previous amount of
packaging. Later in the year, the packaging also won
a Worldstar at the annual awards for the world’s best
packaging solutions. Reduced packaging also has
environmental benefits in terms of transport as more
products can be shipped on the same lorry, resulting
in more efficient use of transport and reduced CO2
emissions.
Back to CONTENTS

41

new requirements that can impact on our products.
At present, no new requirements are expected to
impact on the annual accounts.

Packaging for BeoCenter 6-26 after and before the
reduction in packaging.

On the supplier front, we have worked actively with
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for the past
three years. The CSR guidelines are set out in Bang &
Olufsen’s Code of Conduct which all suppliers must
sign up to. Suppliers are divided into three risk
groups where suppliers in the high-risk group
are subject to a three-part audit. Bang & Olufsen
recognizes that responsible supplier management is
an ongoing process. Consequently, our aim is not to
use the Code of Conduct to terminate a relationship
with a supplier where an audit reveals critical
deviations. Rather, we initiate joint action plans
designed to improve the supplier’s environmental
and social standards. The implemented re-audits
show improvements at supplier level with regard to
human rights, employee rights and the environment.
As early as the product development stage we place
extensive environmental demands on our products,
the so-called compulsory features. In addition to
purely statutory requirements, these compulsory
features comprise internal requirements that exceed
the statutory ones. One new compulsory feature
introduced in 2008 is a ban on the use of the
element tantalum/coltan. Extraction of tantalum/
coltan in the Congo has raised ethical questions
relating to human rights and endangered animals
in the area. Up to now, we have used condensers
that contain tantal, but we are now phasing out
the use of this.
Over the past year, we continued to monitor other
countries’ implementation of product environmentrelated legislation, including the two EU directives
WEEE3 and RoHS4 within as well as outside Europe.
We also continuously update our knowledge on

42

Back to CONTENTS

In December 2006, the EU Commission approved the
new chemical regulation REACH5. The part of REACH
that deals with materials and preparations has no
direct bearing on us as we do not import from
non-European countries. With regard to the
evaluation of chemicals in articles, we have decided
to participate actively together with the Danish
Environmental Protection Agency and DHI in the
pre-project: “The Consequences of REACH for
electronic companies – Requirements for
Downstream Use of Preparations and Production
of Chemicals”. At the time of writing, the project is
nearing completion and all indications are that the
part of REACH that relates to chemicals in articles
will not impact on us.
On the backdrop of REACH and participation in
the project, we have initiated an internal chemical
reduction programme under which the purchase and
use of CMR6 materials class 1 and 2 are prohibited at
Bang & Olufsen. Having completed the substitution
of these chemicals, we believe that REACH will have
no consequences for Bang & Olufsen.
No external environmental issues have, or could
have, a significant impact on Bang & Olufsen’s
financial position and Bang & Olufsen’s Mechanics
Factory has been approved in accordance with the
Danish Environmental Protection Act’s section 5.
With regard to changes to processes and production
layout, the objective is to eliminate or limit pollution
whenever possible. We maintain a regular dialogue
with the authorities to establish the best solutions
and minimise pollution, e.g. by using cleaner
technology (BAT7).
Bang & Olufsen prepares annual statutory green
accounts for the anodising plant. Anodising is an
electro-chemical treatment of aluminium which
results in a highly durable surface structure. This
surface structure means that with ordinary use,
the aluminium element will retain its original
attractive appearance for many years.
As well as the green accounts, we also prepare a
voluntary environmental review every year which
details the environmental aspects of production at
our factories as well as our working environment
conditions.

We also prepare a product-related environment
review ”To the last detail, an account of
environmental awareness told through the
development, production, use and disposal of
a specific product.” “To the last detail” has been
produced for BeoCenter 1, BeoSound 3200, BeoLab
1 and BeoCenter 2, automotive products for cars and
BeoCenter 6.
”To the last detail” and the environmental review
can be downloaded at www.bang-olufsen.com. The
green accounts are available from the Environment
Department on +45 96 84 10 69.

1. Council Directive 2005/32/EC. EUP is an abbreviation of the
directive’s English title Energy Using Products. For the electronics
industry, this primarily relates to the reduction of the products’
energy consumption during the user phase.
2. Council Directive 94/62/EF of 20 December 1994 on packaging
as amended by 2004/12/EF.
3. Council Directive 2002/96/EC. WEEE is an abbreviation of the
directive’s English title Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment.
The directive determines manufacturer responsibility for the
collection and reprocessing of end of life electronic products.
4. Council Directive 2002/95/EC. RoHS is an abbreviation of the
directive’s English title Restriction of use of certain Hazardous
Substances. For the electronics industry, this primarily relates to
the switch to lead-free soldering.
5. Council regulation no. 1907 of December 18, 2006. REACH is
an abbreviation of the regulations’ English title: Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation of Chemicals.
6. CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or toxic Reproduction.
7. BAT is an environmental term ”Best Available Technology”
(best accessible – or cleaner technology).

Back to CONTENTS

43

