Social Charter for the Rockwool Group
The products and services sold by the Rockwool Group
have a positive impact on the global problems of climate
change and diminishing reserves of fossil energy. At the
same time they improve the living conditions for millions
of people by giving them thermal comfort, affordable
heating and cooling, reduced fire risk, a lower noise and
vibration level and fewer chemicals in vegetables from
greenhouses.
These basic, positive contributions to the world are important for the Group’s employees, for its management
and board and for the spirit in which we all work.
The fact that the Group offers a positive contribution to
the world is also paramount for the Group’s largest shareholders, the Rockwool Foundation and the Kähler Family
members. According to its bylaws, the Rockwool Foundation has to spend its entire earnings to the benefit of society.

Of course the Rockwool Group as a company has to make
money in order to develop the business and offer the
shareholders a return on their capital. However, the priorities should not only be set according to where the Group
can make most money; it should also be ensured that the
Group continues to have a positive impact on society in
the countries and on the continents where it operates.
Therefore the Group should avoid being involved in products and in operations which have a negative impact on
people’s health and well-being, and we shall conduct our
business in a way that also ensures a positive social impact on our surroundings. Conducting the business according to high ethical standards, and training personnel
to a high international level, are typical ways in which
the Rockwool Group positively influences our environment and society - wherever we operate.
The Group maintains an open dialogue with our stakeholders.

Rockwool factories

Global Reports LLC

Energy & Environment
The race for energy efficiency in buildings is picking up speed at an unprecedented rate because governments have realised the urgent need for
action. Especially in the EU, which is the Rockwool Group’s largest market,
a growing number of countries are competing to become the most energy
efficient. This is not just a short-term whim. Many goals and actions also
involve the period up to 2020. Better insulation is a key instrument.

More power plants or less waste of expensive energy? Better energy and CO2 efficiency of buildings and
industrial processes holds enormous, economic potential. A power plant using fossil fuels in Cheshire, U.K.

Global Reports LLC

Annual Report 2007

19

Energy – a growing challenge
Energy has become a top political priority. Oil prices have more than tripled
since early 2003, but demand - especially in the developing world - continues
to grow. Concerns over security of energy supply are strong. Non-renewable energy sources still account for 87% of the world’s energy consumption. The dependence on energy imports is high and growing in most OECD countries. The
European gas crisis in 2006 accentuated the risk. Most of the world’s natural
gas reserves are controlled by just three countries. Four countries control the
majority of the oil reserves.
The growing concern over global warming intensifies the political pressure to
curb excessive waste of fossil fuels. The EU has made a unilateral commitment to cut CO2 emissions by 20%, but aims at a multilateral target of 30% by
2020. There is still a chance to limit the increase in average global temperatures to ‘just’ 2˚C . However, according to the UN Climate Panel, IPCC, this will
require a 50-85% cut in the world’s CO2 emissions by 2050.
The lowest hanging fruit - insulation
Politicians are increasingly becoming aware that buildings are the most obvious
place to start.
Buildings account for some 40% of energy and end-use CO2 emissions in the
EU and the US. Heating and cooling are the major energy guzzlers in society. A
growing number of recent reports – for instance from the IPCC, Ecofys, Stern,
Vattenfall/McKinsey and CEPS – point to the fact that better energy efficiency
in buildings, and insulation in particular, is one – if not the most - cost-effective
measure to reduce energy waste and CO2 emissions. Energy consumption for
heating can be halved in a profitable way with current energy solutions. It will
improve and not compromise our quality of life. If all buildings undergoing modernisation were to be brought up to contemporary energy standards we could
in Europe alone, over time, save € 270 billion in annual energy costs and we
would save 460 million tonnes of CO2 (more than the EU Kyoto Protocol commitment). On a world-wide basis, Vattenfall estimates that annual CO2 emission
savings of up to 3,700 million tonnes would be possible - and profitable - in
buildings alone.
EU actions that matter
The race for energy efficiency is clearly evident in the EU. 25% tightenings of
the energy requirements for new buildings are not unusual when the 27 member states and associated countries implement the Energy Performance of
Buildings Directive (2002/91/EC), abbreviated EPBD. Now, the energy requirements must be reviewed at regular intervals which should not be longer
than every five years. The effect of the EPBD is only slowly starting to work.
In 2007 a growing number of ambitious medium-term goals were set. Passive
House standards are planned for new homes in the UK (2013), Norway (2017)
and Austria (2015/2020), and very low energy standards in France (2012), Germany (2012), the Netherlands (2015) and Denmark (2015). A Passive House is
extremely well insulated and uses up to 90% less energy for heating and cooling than an average building. As the next step, the UK aims to introduce zerocarbon houses by 2016. By 2020, French buildings must produce more energy
than they consume and in Germany new buildings should be heated without the
use of fossil fuels wherever possible.

Global Reports LLC

20

Annual Report 2007

Further improvements are expected. The EU considers following the example of countries like Germany, Norway and
Denmark, demanding that all buildings, and not just those
larger than 1,000 m2, be brought up to contemporary energy standards when they undergo major renovations. This
is important, as existing buildings hold the greatest potential for economic energy savings.
The EU Energy End-Use Efficiency and Energy Services
Directive (2006/32/EC) will provide another energy efficiency boost in the same magnitude as the EPBD. From
2008 and nine years ahead the member states must save
at least 9% on final energy. The member states shall, for
instance, require energy providers to support their endusers in implementing energy efficiency improvements.
Again, some countries want to excel. At national level the
UK, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain and France are the
most ambitious, aiming to save at least twice the minimum requirement, according to their now mandatory National Energy Efficiency Action Plans.
Tangible goals have been set in for instance the Netherlands to retrofit and improve energy efficiency by at least
30% in 200-300,000 buildings per year. The target for
France is 400,000 old dwellings per year, whereas the
UK aspires to double saving targets and increase subsidies
from 2009–2011.
The next big energy efficiency booster will be the EU Action Plan for Energy Efficiency, aiming at saving 20% of

primary energy before 2020. Energy savings in buildings is
one of the key areas. The Action Plan must pave the way
for improvements in information and financing (support, tax
credits, VAT differentiation, etc.) for energy efficiency in the
member states. It aims to introduce minimum energy efficiency requirements for both new and renovated buildings.
Passive Houses/very low-energy houses and energy-efficient modernisation should become the rule rather than the
exception. The Rockwool Group expects this Action Plan to
increase the insulation market, especially from 2013, but
the exact scope will depend on the specific implementation
in individual member states.
The ambitious energy efficiency race represents a promising opportunity for the insulation industry, but it also entails a huge challenge for the authorities and the building
industry that need to train millions of building professionals
in new, tight construction techniques. Correct installation
methods are essential for optimal efficiency gains and for a
healthy indoor climate.
Energy efficiency outside the EU
Energy requirements are also being improved outside the
EU. In Canada and the US many efforts are made on local
and regional level. In the Ontario province, where the Rockwool Group is establishing an additional production line, insulation requirements for new homes have been tightened
by 21.5% - with further improvements announced for 2009
and 2012. In the US, a USD 2,000 tax credit is given nationwide to home owners who insulate properly.

Expected introduction of very low energy requirements for new buildings

France
Germany

2012

Global Reports LLC

United Kingdom

2013

The Netherlands
Denmark

2015

Norway

2017

Annual Report 2007

21

Stricter energy requirements for new
buildings have progressed well, but annual construction of new buildings in Europe only amounts to approx. 1% of the
total building stock. To really reduce the
CO2 emissions from our buildings, more
determined efforts must be made to include the existing buildings in future action plans for CO2 reductions

CO2 saved more than 100 times
Keeping our own house in order is an integral part of our
environmental policy. In its lifetime, a typical Rockwool
product can save more than 100 times the energy and
CO2 emissions that were used for its production, transport
and disposal. More than 200 million tonnes of CO2 will be
saved by the use of Rockwool insulation produced and installed in 2007. Saving fossil fuels, insulation also reduces
many air pollutants.
Own house in order
Over the last two years the Rockwool Group has doubled
the number of energy audits in order to further improve our
energy balance.
Our CO2 allowance expenditure for the quota period 20052007 ended at EUR 0.6 million. The Rockwool Group is
undergoing major production expansions so extra CO2 allowances for 2008 are budgeted at EUR 4.3 million at a
price of EUR 25 per tonne. The Rockwool Group has a recycling system which enables us to melt and turn three
quarters of our stone wool waste into new products. Our
growing recycling initiatives are supported by the EU Environment LIFE programme.

Global Reports LLC

Responsibility is the corner stone of the Rockwool Group’s
environmental policy, which exceeds local legal requirements in a number of areas. The Rockwool Group has acceded to the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
Business Charter for Sustainable Development – Principles
for Environmental Management.
Rockwool activities have a very positive overall environmental impact, but like all production it also entails drawbacks for our neighbours around the factories. The Group
will seek an open dialogue with our neighbours in order to
make our co-existence as positive as possible. For the first
time in many years the Group is involved in an environmental legal case, namely in Croatia.

More information on the Group’s environmental situation can be
found in Rockwool International A/S’s Environment report at:
www.rockwool.com

