CR REPORT

CR REPORT

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
AT DFDS
DFDS HAS TAKEN THE FIRST STEPS TO UNITE CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY (CR) AND OPERATIONS TO CREATE
VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND OUR COMPANY
Executive message
“DFDS is responsible for many employees, their working conditions, their
safety and their health at work. We help
to safeguard the infrastructure and supply of goods. We are responsible for our
passengers’ safety, for our customers’
freight, and for operating as responsibly
as possible in relation to the environment. We are responsible for managing
the investments made in DFDS – and
much more”.

“Our responsibility is recognised in a
range of policies covering these areas.
In this, our first comprehensive report
on CR, we present policies, actions, and
our progress covering our corporate
responsibility efforts. Hopefully our
commitment will come through in this
report and at the same time improve
the transparency of our work. We aim
to improve continuously from here,
step by step: That is The DFDS Way”.
“ We aim to create value for stakeholders
through being a good ‘corporate citizen’,
and we want all DFDS citizens – from
the Board to individual employees – to
contribute actively by making responsibility part of their daily working life.”
Niels Smedegaard,
President and CEO
Our new approach to Corporate
Responsibility
We have embarked on a journey to
manage CR risks and opportunities systematically. A clear strategy has been set,
with targets for short and medium-term
performance improvements, andwe are
committed to working with our stakeholders to reach these targets.
Our CR Strategy
The ambition of our CR strategy is to
create and protect value for our stake-

40

holders supporting DFDS’ position as a
preferred supplier and employer.
Our ‘roadmap’ to creating value for DFDS
and its stakeholders from CR involves
working with others. We engage with policy
makers, for example on sulphur emissions;
we participate in international industry forums on security and safety; we work with
suppliers, for example on efficient bunker
refuelling; and we are managing community relations such as around our Rotterdam
terminal. See below for more information
on who we engage with, the issues that
are important to them and what we do and plan to do - about them.
All of our CR efforts depend on the collaboration of our colleagues across the
company on land and sea. Without them,
little can be achieved. But in order to harness the collaborative energy reliable processes and systems must be in place. Over
the past two years, we have strengthened
our capacity for CR in our operations by
sharing best practices and improving internal communications on CR. An example
is the emerging human resources (HR)
management system which will allow
more systematic management of people,
policies and goals. Another example is the
new supply chain management database
which will allow us to refine our understanding and partnerships relating to key
risks and opportunities in the value chain.
An executive CR strategy workshop was
held in November 2011. Key topics were
the structure CR-work, measurability and
transparency, and integrating CR into
daily operations while creating business
value. There is scope for innovation and
we found that we engage with external
parties on many issues relating to CR. A
comparison with peer companies of performance on five key CR issues showed
that DFDS is well positioned for future
development of CR.

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

Governance of CR
To govern DFDS’ CR strategy relating to
stakeholder identification, reviewing
stakeholder relationships, and an overall
CR policy, a new CR corporate governance
has been launched with arrangements
including:

new CR Committee comprising five
senior people responsible for driving
and managing CR at DFDS
Niels Smedegaard, cel is the overall
sponsor of the new Committee 
the executive management committee (ECM) sets the long term ambition
with our CR Committee driving the
programme.

Clear terms of reference for the Committee are being developed. It will meet at
least quarterly and will invite external
stakeholders to two of these meetings.
The Chairman of the CR Committee will
report progress twice yearly to the ECM,
and annually to the Board of Directors.
The members of the CR Committee will

WHAT ARE OUR
KEY CR ISSUES?
scale to deliver CR
security of employees,
customers and passengers
management, including
fair employment terms
greenhouse gases
customers on CR issues

CR REPORT

discuss and make decisions on key CR
topic areas such as human resources,
procurement, environment, health &
safety, ethical conduct. The objectives of
the Committee will be to drive forward
the development of CR policies, commitments and goals, regular stakeholder
mapping and engagement, CR issues
prioritisation, annual CR reporting and
the assessment of signing up to the UN
Global Compact, which DFDS expect to
do in 2012.
Working with stakeholders
Creating value from CR for DFDS and its
stakeholders involves stakeholder engagement processes – working with others
and being accountable. A stakeholder is a
person or organisation who we influence,
or who can influence us, including voiceless ones such as the environment and
future generations.

WORKING WITH OUR NEIGHBOURS
Our Rotterdam terminal is next door to a residential
area. We used to receive about 30 complaints a
month from local residents. Noise and road traffic
movements can be a nuisance. We set out to explain
more about our role in the port and what we are doing.
We launched a local community newsletter in 2010
for some 2,000 residents to keep them informed of
our latest developments. As a result, across 2011,
complaints dropped from around 30 per month to
just a handful, and some months none at all.

Our new CR governance therefore builds
on engaging with external stakeholders.
Dialogue and collaboration can help
tackle CR challenges such as emissions control and fair labour conditions.
Collaboration can create opportunity:
systematically understanding the
changing requirements of customers
regarding wider issues can help differentiate a transport supplier, for example.
Open engagement with employees can
yield productivity improvements. Consideration of the way we interact with
ports, logistics hubs and local communities can protect commercial value and
reputation.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT

Who are DFDS’ stakeholders and what
do they expect of us? The table below
lists our stakeholder groups, the ways we
engage with them and our opinion of the
key outcomes relevant to CR.
What’s material to our CR
Strategy and Report?
Through workshops and benchmarking we identified a range of issues

CR COMMITTE

SHIPPING
DIVISION

LOGISTIC
DIVISION

PEOPLE & SHIPS

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

FINANCE

41

CR REPORT

The table below lists our stakeholder groups, the ways we engage with them and our opinion of the key outcomes relevant to CR.
Stakeholder

Who they are

How we engage

Customers/
Passengers

Employees/
Unions

Regulators and government
(land & sea)

Lauritzen Foundation

Industry organisations

welfare meetings

and industry associations

Suppliers

Communities where we operate

warehouses, offices and other facilities

Media, NGO’s and others

42

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

CR REPORT

Key engagement issues

Progress during 2011

Plans for 2012/2013


with ports incl. land connections for electricity so
where we operate
engines can be shut down in port to reduce noise
and emissions

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

43

CR REPORT


Customer H&S and security
Fair employment/Provide good jobs
Greenhouse gas emissions
Compliance

Business ethics
Community donations
CR governance
Employee training/career dev’t
Local air emissions
Marine pollution

energy, water etc)
Responsible policy advocacy
Responsible procurement
Ship disposal
Accessibility to stakeholders
Internal and external communication

Financial results
Global air emissions
Financial reporting
Employee Diversity
Collaborating with Customers
on CR issues
Efficient and effective infrastructure

MEDIUM

HIGH

HIGH

Emergency response

MEDIUM

IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDER

Noise

LOW

Ship registry (GRI LT1)


Biodiversity/ecological protection

LOW

IMPORTANCE TO DFDS

that matter the most and that may
influence the decisions, actions and
performance of employees, customers
and other stakeholders. The relative
importance of these issues was then
22

positions on issues). Corporate risk was
also taken into consideration in this
review. The grid below shows the most
important issues identified as a result
of this work.
Determining CR priorities is a dynamic
process and we are committed to improving our understanding of where focus
should be and how CR issues should be

44

managed. Processes are being developed
to invite and gather feedback to help
refine the understanding of material
issues.
About this Report
The scope of the information and data
in the CR section of this Annual report
(“CR Report”) covers DFDS’ operations
in Northern Europe, including 47 ships,
port terminals and offices. CO2 data are
based on bunker documentation and
does not currently include energy or CO2
data from logistics operations and offices. The CR Report does not cover any
joint venture operations or activities of
partner organisations. The information

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

in this CR Report meets the requirements of the amendments to the Danish
Financial Statements Act 2009 and is
subject to internal data management
systems and audit. The data covers the
financial year January to December
2011. We did not seek external independent assurance for the CR Report
content and will review options for the
next CR Report. The report is guided
by the principles of report content and
quality from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainable Development

SAFETY AND SECURITY
THE SAFETY OF PASSENGERS, CREW AND FREIGHT,
AND THE SECURITY OF SHIPS AND PORT FACILITIES,
IS OF PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE TO DFDS
Highlights
rating recorded in 2011
incident reporting

data systems

maintained
Our approach
Part of DFDS’ customer service is to
ensure systematic implementation and
monitoring of safety standards. Safety
processes build on continuous improvement and sharing of best practices. In
our approach to managing health and
safety (H&S), employees, passengers,
freight customers and regulators are key
stakeholders.
Corporate safety and security objectives
and requirements are determined by
national and international regulations.
Under the International Safety Management (ISM) code and the International
Ship and Port Facility Security Code
(ISPS), all maritime safety measures and
security factors must be reported for all
ships on an ongoing basis, and all ships
must report any incidents on board. This
can be anonymously under a ‘no blame’
policy according to safety guidelines. In
our logistics business we are guided by
industrial and highways regulations as
standard.
The ISM code aims to ensure that all
relevant standards are respected, and
that safety contingency plans work. This
applies to safety equipment, safe ship
construction, management procedures,
training of the crew, drills, document control, and formal safety monitoring, structured management reviews and auditing.

1

The ISM code also requires a designated
person ashore to ensure safe operations
and a link between the shore-based
management and the captain and crew
onboard. Safety and security audits are
held on all ships in the fleet at least once
a year. Findings are shared to promote
best practice. In addition inspections are
also carried out as a separate task during
the year.
DFDS’ Health, Safety and Environment
Policy, revised in 2009, strives to deliver
improvement through active demonstration of commitment and leadership at
all levels in the shipping and logistics
businesses. This means practicing what
we preach, where all managers behave
in a way that demonstrates safety and
accountability.
Our security management is governed by
the International Ship and Port Facility
Security (ISPS) Code, which helps protect
against terrorist attacks and other disruptions. Shipping and logistics are subject
to security inspections on a regular
basis. Audits are held in conjunction with
safety audits. The fleet regularly takes
part in exercises with different countries’
emergency services, in order to train staff,
exchange experiences and ensure the
ships are prepared for any eventuality.
We monitor accidents, incidents and nearmisses at sea and discuss the outcomes
of regular audits on a monthly basis.
This approach involves clear targets for
shipping safety at business unit level.
Our Marine Standards experts, People
and Ships VPs and CEO meet to formally
review H&S and security once a month.
Core to this process is to review H&S
data collected from ships in readiness for
inspection by maritime authorities.

We engage on safety and security with
relevant national and international
stakeholders, National Maritime and
Port Authorities, the Danish Shipowners’
Association, British Chamber of Shipping, International Chamber of Shipping’s
Passenger Ship Panel and the Nordic
Committee for Passenger Ship Safety
>3,	122=P+!+
15

2+2+
on H&S meetings of Work Councils and
work with suppliers to identify safety
opportunities.
Progress in 2011
All vessels and logistics operations
are surveyed and certified according to
international, EU and national legislation,
including internal audits and inspections
on safety and security according to
company procedures.
In 2011 the Lost Time Injury Frequency
(LTIF) 1 was 2.9, down from 6.6 in 2010.
31.7 near misses on average per vessel
was recorded, up from 13.4 in 2010.
This increase reflects a higher level of
awareness on safety and the number
of near misses reported is expected to
continue to increase in coming years
based on more focus in this area. There
were zero fatalities in 2011 in either our
land or sea based operations. Following
integration of Norfolkline, H&S systems
were merged by April 2011.
DFDS Logistics’ operations are also
getting safer as the Lost Time Injury
Frequency (LTIF) was 13.9, down from
16.4 in 2010. On several sites greater
emphasis is placed on accident potential, near misses, safe work operating
procedures and daily personal awareness tours carried out by Supervisors
and Team Leaders.

Lost Time Injury Frequency is the frequency of lost work days per one million exposure hours. A lost work day is time lost from an injury which results in an individual being
unable to carry out any of their duties or to return to work on a scheduled work shift on the day following the injury.

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

45

CR REPORT

Shipping incidents reported 2

Lost time injury frequency (LTIF)
Fatalities

Logistics incidents reported 3
Lost time injury frequency (LTIF)
Fatalities

2011

2010

2009

31.7
2.9
0

13.4
6.6
0

4.8
8.0
0

2011

2010

2009

13.9
0

16.4
0

n.a.
0

The following vessels recorded no lost
time accidents for 180 days or more by
the end of December 2011:
Days
Britannia Seaways
Primula Seaways
Ficaria Seaways
Petunia Seaways
Ark Futura
Anglia Seaways
Flandria Seaways
Delft Seaways
Dover Seaways
Dunkerque Seaways
Princess Seaways

908
796
605
413
373
314
278
274
190
189
183

For 2011 two separate fires during dock
stays were reported, one on PRINCESS
SEAWAYS and a second on FICARIA SEAWAYS. The incidents showed the effectiveness of the automatic extinguishing
system, the crew’s preparedness, and the
collaboration with the local fire service.
A 23-year-old woman fell overboard from
PRINCESS SEAWAYS, UK rescue services
were scrambled but the ferry’ s own
rescue team saved her within minutes.
She was checked for hypothermia and
kept overnight before being released
to a hospital on shore for observation.
“Incredibly professionally, DFDS managed
to turn the vessel around, using their
man overboard drill, and find her quickly”
Flight Sergeant Rick Jones, RAF Search
and Rescue 4.
In early 2012 LIVERPOOL SEAWAYS was
detained in Karlshamn, Sweden until
deficiencies were corrected, including
evacuation ladders that were too short.

Immediate safety management meetings
were completed to learn from this and
improve safety processes.
In our logistics business, an internal H&S
audit at DFDS Belfast Logistics in 2011
showed a 30% year on year improvement from the benchmark standard. We
continued our programme of H&S training
to deliver such performance elsewhere.
The overall target is to reduce accidents
to zero.
We recorded that the port terminals of
Dover and Dunkirk had not had a Lost
Time Accident in the previous 12 months
from January 2011. We attribute this to
regular ‘drip feed’ H&S training by all 160
staff regularly via the internet and faceto-face. Tailored training is also offered to
deal with safety in proximity to moving
vehicles. Reporting of near misses is
also at a high at Dover, showing strong
awareness and proves that training is vital. Our DFDS Scandic Terminal in Esbjerg
achieved 180 days without a serious
work accident or LTA in April 2011, which
is supported by focused training on minor
accidents.
Training for situations requiring first aid
is also maintained. For example, each
year, hundreds of officers and all crew
are trained to various levels in paramedic
care and basic or advanced first aid. On
all passenger and cargo ships extensive
drills are conducted each week based
on around 15 different scenarios such
as marine evacuation.
With regard to security arrangements,
the tragic Norwegian shooting incident in July 2011 required activation
of our security alert and corporate
response which worked according to
plan. Ship Security Plans deal with all
security related processes, including
risks such as piracy. The security audit
programme also showed that systems
are in compliance with International
and EU regulations.
Future steps / Commitments 2015

lost time accidents


in 2014

Former Norfolkline operations’ data are included in the calculations from July 2010
4
www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/8744567/Woman-rescued-from-North-Sea-after-falling-from-ferry.html
2
3

46

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

CR REPORT

PEOPLE AND
COMMUNITY
OUR AIM IS TO BE A PREFERRED EMPLOYER, TO BE
VALUED BY OUR EMPLOYEES AND TO BE TRUSTED
BY THE HOST COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE
Highlights

employees in logistics

DFDS and 84% feel a strong sense of
loyalty to DFDS
Our approach
Our approach to people management
is guided by the values of The DFDS
Way. Human resources (HR) and CR are
closely linked, focusing on a number of
issues: attraction and retention, health,
safety and security, training and career
development, diversity, and fair labour
conditions.
Our People & Ships corporate function
covers all HR for shipping and logistics
operations, including the people in the
Technical organisation. Personnel at
sea and on land work under numerous
collective bargaining agreements (CBA)
which differ according to seniority, crew
rating/pay grade, and flag flown. DFDS
Logistics uses many subcontractors
who are subject to terms and conditions
to help manage quality, efficiency and
safety at work.
Many common policies are in place
for all business units, covering areas
such as international leadership, staff
appraisals, training and development,
pay and bonuses, working time,
employee wellbeing, recruitment,
labour standards, ethics, grievance and
company cars. Specific policies are
in place in shipping to cover alcohol/
drugs, crew development and officer
succession. Where policies are not yet
aligned across the group programmes
are underway, for example for diversity
and retention.

We actively connect HR to corporate responsibility: our new Director for Environment and Sustainability, who’s also the
Chair of the new CR Committee, reports
to the Executive Vice President of People
and Ships. By doing so, we aim to deliver
high quality H&S management at sea and
on land which respects The DFDS Way.
There are three HR directors reporting to
EVP People & Ships working in partnership with local managers.
DFDS is responsive to local HR management needs based on good levels of engagement and sensitivity to local conditions. Employees are a key stakeholder and
our satisfaction survey is an important
tool. Other engagement includes working
with employees on H&S committees, on
work councils and union representation.
Each business unit develops its own
training plan for career development and
safety training, for example. Many will
include contractors, particularly in our
logistics business.
With respect to community relations, our
activities are mainly localised, taking
root through the energy of the volunteers
involved, and achieving their own momentum. DFDS’ weekly newsletter informs
about the community relations projects
carried out across the company for all to
see. Often flourishing from grass roots
levels, these activities demonstrate our
values and inspire others to act similarly.
This is accompanied by a number of corporate initiatives as well as support from
the Lauritzen Foundation.

PROGRESS IN 2011
People
We employ 5,100 people, up from 4,862
in 2010. The headcount has grown

mainly as a result of the full-year effect of
the Norfolkline acquisition. Around 46%
of these are at sea. Our head office is in
Copenhagen. Across Northern Europe we
operate more than 50 offices. We employ
600 officers, more than 100 navigators, a similar number of engineers and
electricians and 1,799 ship assistants. In
our logistics business we employ 1,049
people including more than 25 business
managers, 60 sales and marketing staff
and 150 drivers. We make use of over
1,000 freight transport subcontractors
every day .
Our priorities are identified as managing
retention, attracting talent, leadership
development, and diversity. Progress is
being made with a new HR management
system, supported by an integrated IT database. It will support tracking of employees, profiles, skills, succession, pay and
benefits. We continue to participate in
industry and governmental programmes
to attract employees, including recruitment programmes with universities
and through social media. DFDS is well
regarded by its labour relations stakeholders, which is important to attracting and
retaining talented people.
We invest in training and development as
a core part of what we do. A total of 340
employees have since 2009 completed


training course. Also, business units have
‘tool-box’ safety training talks on a regular basis according to local requirements.
And DFDS Logistics in Peterborough, UK,
for example, is an approved centre for
Driver Training.
The growth of The DFDS Way comes with
training on it, during which feedback is
gathered on how we manage business
ethics and the emerging Code of Conduct.
Also launched in 2011, The DFDS Way

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

47

CR REPORT

DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES ON
LAND AND SEA
NO. OF EMPLOYEES

EMPLOYEES PER COUNTRY, 2011
(%)

6.000

100

GENDER DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES, 2011
(%)

90
80

5.000

70
60

4.000

50
40

3.000

30
20

2.000

FEMALES (26 %)

10

MALES (74 %)

0

1.000

GERMANY, FRANCE, ITALY
2011

2010

2009

0

SWEDEN/NORWAY
HOLLAND/BELGIUM
BALTIC COUNTRIES/RUSSIA

LAND

DENMARK

SEA

UK/IRELAND

TRACKING EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION
Staff satisfaction surveys was started in 2008.
The 2011 employee satisfaction survey closed
with a response rate of 74%. Overall, employees
say they are satisfied with DFDS but improvements can be made. Out of a possible 7 points we
scored 5.2 overall (74%), no change from 2009

,tion of Norfolkline). Overall DFDS employees feel
a strong sense of loyalty to the company with
a score of 5.9 (84%), up from 5.8 in 2009. Each
Executive Management Team member received
survey results for his area of responsibility, which
will be cascaded to managers at the next level and
so on through the organisation.
“Our employee survey achieved a record response
rate, helps engagement with colleagues, and contributes to the stakeholder and risk management
processes we are developing”
Henrik Holck, EVP HR.

48

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

Award rewards initiatives, projects and
actions that embody The DFDS Way in
practice.
On diversity, we have no women in post
at the level of Vice President and above.
We are setting up projects to understand
more about gender and other factors
affecting diversity at DFDS and how to
encourage women and others in management and leadership. The emerging
HR management system will provide
baseline data for managing diversity. We
expect to report on developments in the
next CR report.
A thriving workforce is helped by a
healthy lifestyle. DFDS promotes and
supports initiatives on wellbeing at work.
In 2011, the DFDS House exercise-at-work
campaign encouraged daily exercise and
the TOR FUTURA was the overall winner
in the Danish Government Seamen’s
Service Seafarer Fitness campaign.
Whilst we strive to develop and reward
the workforce, DFDS is always subject to
the economic and market forces affecting
operations. In case of redundancies we
adopt a sensitive and professional approach guided by the values in The DFDS
Way. The closure in 2011 of the Dublin-

CR REPORT

Birkenhead and Dublin-Heysham Routes
in the Irish Sea directly affected 50 colleagues in Dublin. We worked to mitigate
the consequences of the redundancies.
We consulted the Dutch Works Council
and the Trade Union representing the Officers of one of our ships that was moved
between routes and re-staffed. Similarly
we re-flagged the FLANDRIA SEAWAYS
and consulted in an open manner with
the Works Council and Nautilus during
2011 to resolve outstanding issues..
Due to challenges relating to growing
competition and increasing oil prices
for example, business activities have
been adjusted. In 2011, this required us
to make 31 redundancies in the English
Channel business unit, and 34 in the
logistics site in Ghent. In both cases we
formally advised unions of our analyses.
Engagement with the unions has been
very open and we are committed to engaging with the unions and staff affected.
Those affected were invited to discuss
any questions with the HR Director
concerned.
No fines, prosecutions or breaches of regulations relating to HR, including equal
opportunities and human rights, were
recorded in 2011.
Community
It is the compelling energy of our people
which is at the heart of our community
relations work. At the corporate level we
complement their efforts with corporate initiatives such as High:Five, the
Christmas lunch for the homeless and
the contribution to Denmark’s National
Fundraising Day.
Our commitment to employing selected
young offenders continued in 2011 with

net). The aim is to give participants an
opportunity to return to normal life. Currently five young people are employed
by DFDS. High:Five is part subsidized by
government and to date DFDS has worked with around 25 young people, 60%
of whom find permanent employment.

CROWN OF SCANDINAVIA invited 216
homeless people for a lunch and along
with a lottery of 234 practical gifts paid
for by DFDS. Meanwhile in Copenhagen
nearly 200 homeless people came aboard
PEARL SEAWAYS to enjoy a Christmas
lunch. The crew served the free lunch and
also raised 8,000 DKK (1,100 Euros) for
gifts for the guests. The event was organised with Netbuss and The Mission Among
the Homeless, from Copenhagen. As part
of Denmark’s National Fundraising Day
in aid of Africa in 2011 we donated DKK
50,000 (6,700 Euros) in addition to DKK
3,800 (500 Euros) collected from staff in
two days.
As described in the stakeholder
engagement section, the Rotterdam
terminal management adopted an active
approach to community relations by
publishing and distributing a tailored
newsletter for their neighbours. The aim
was to inform local residents and help
reduce complaints. Following its launch
in 2010, the number of complaints each
month dropped from around 30 per
month to just a handful, and sometimes
none at all. “By communicating clearly
and on time about what residents can
expect from us, we can manage a lot
of complaints in advance” Rob Olbertz,
Route Director Netherlands-UK.
Finally, the Lauritzen Foundation
provides an invaluable support to DFDS
employees past and present. The Foundation awards grants to former and present
employees of DFDS and for a variety of
cultural, entrepreneurial, educational and

Future steps / Commitments 2015

,mation system across the Group

policies relating to Diversity
and Retention, 2012

Diversity programme

Christmas lunches for homeless people
were held again in December and attracted a high level of participation.
Colleagues from the office in Oslo and

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

49

CR REPORT

ENVIRONMENT
OUR PRIMARY GOAL IS TO REDUCE EMISSIONS AND BUILD
PARTNERSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS TO ENSURE THAT
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS DEVELOP EFFECTIVELY
AND SENSIBLY
Highlights

 emissions
by 10% over a five year period

Environment chairs new Corporate
Responsibility Committee

investment in 2011

by incentivizing employees
Our approach
DFDS’ Environmental Policy, formulated in 2007, commits to the
protection and conservation of the environment. Key commercial risk factors
include environmental regulation and
energy price inflation and volatility.
The Environmental Policy guides on
analysis of compliance costs, innovation, and the corporate response to
regulatory change. For example, with
respect to the IMO MARPOL Annex VI
regulations on reducing sulphur oxide
emissions from ships to 0.1% by 2015,
we are working hard to come up with
a technical solution as well as a more
balanced political outcome.
On land we are obliged to meet climate
change legislation, such as the Carbon
Reduction Commitment (CRC) in the
UK, a Government scheme to encourage
energy efficiency by medium to large
sized electricity users. At port facilities
and terminals we are improving the
energy efficiency of buildings, plant
and equipment and reviewing on-site
renewable energy sources.
Our teams follow procedures to implement environmental management dayto-day. As part of customer service we
renewed the ISO 14001 EMS certification
at Belfast, Brugge, Ghent, Gothenburg and
Helsingborg logistics operations.

reduction in CO2 emissions 2008-2012,
based on a per capacity unit consumption per nautical mile. Compliance with
all applicable regulations is constantly
ensured where we operate. We also
commit to eliminating environmental
pollution spills completely. We are aiming to maximise resource efficiency,
cut waste, and assess precisely which
environmental investments will be
practicable. The Policy also commits
to enhancing a culture of environmental awareness where colleagues are
comfortable to highlight opportunities
to innovate, or where things are not
going to plan.
DFDS’ new Sustainability and Environment department directs environmental efforts at Group and local levels,
ensuring a common quality and The
DFDS Way for working on sustainability
and corporate responsibility at sea and
on land.

Where we instigate commercial management initiatives we seek to understand
and maximise the environmental benefits, for example through SeaPlanner and
Project Headlight. In 2011 environmental
technology investments amounted to
DKK 69 million.

PROGRESS IN 2011
Carbon intensity
We have achieved the CO2 emissions goal
one year ahead of schedule. The main
source of CO2 emissions is burning marine
fuel oil, known as bunker. It is measured
in grams per gross tons per nautical mile

year target was set for the end of 2012
to cut CO2 emissions by 10%. In 2011 the
average consumption in g/GT/Nm was
9.3% lower than in 2007 for the entire
fleet including Norfolkline vessels. Excluding Norfolkline vessels the average con-

FUEL CONSUMPTION FOR DFDS FLEET 2007-2011
(AVERAGE FUEL CONSUMPTION G/GT/NM)

6.4
6.2
6.0
5.8
5.6
5.4
5.2
Q1
2007

Q1
2008

Q1
2009

FLEET EXCLUDING NORFOLKLINE VESSELS

Specifically, the Environmental Policy
included a commitment to a 10%

50

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

FLEET INCLUDING NORFOLKLINE FROM JAN 1ST 2010

Q1
2010

Q4
2010

CR REPORT

sumption decreased by 11.4% from 2007
to 2011. New goals regarding marine and
logistics fuel consumption reductions will
be decided during 2012.
In 2011, average fuel consumption was
6.3% lower than in 2010 including
Norfolkline vessels (4.3% lower excluding
Norfolkline vessels). Total absolute
consumption changes over time as the
fleet grows or shrinks, or according to
changing weather conditions on a route,
for example. A relative figure is used to
measure consumption to express performance per unit of capacity. See p 124
for the DFDS fleet list for 2011. The data
recording system is being developed to
include DFDS Logistics CO2 emissions.
DFDS’ bunker saving programme
comprises various projects. Core to it
is ship speed; while keeping to sailing
schedules. Work is also focused on faster
loading and unloading, equipment power
efficiency, ballast and ship’s trim control,
new energy-efficient propellers, waste
heat recycling, hull cleaning for improved
hydrodynamics, as well as more efficient
heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and
lighting on board. Energy-efficient route
calculation is helped by ‘SeaPlanner’,
specialist software, now installed on 23
DFDS ships and which recommends the
most energy efficient speed and route.
New propellers on PEARL SEAWAYS, for
example, have shown fuel savings of up
to 9.6% in the testing period. The design
is being installed on other vessels to
reduce fuel use. Such initiatives are major
investments but the payback period is
relatively short due to high oil prices.
Benefits are also derived from working
with suppliers to find synergies and improve efficiency. Our Vendor-Managed Inventory (VMI) project aims to improve the
efficiency of bunker delivery. The supplier
can save on fuel, by optimising its barge
movements. This partnership project will
share information and responsibility with
the supplier. If the supplier can choose
the delivery schedule, this will allow
flexibility and lower costs for DFDS and
the supplier.
On land, the port and terminal facilities
and distribution hubs are also becoming
more energy-efficient. We continue
to benefit from Energy Management
Teams (EMT): at Larkhall and Belfast for
example, new, more efficient refrigeration
was installed with anticipated annual
electricity savings of 30%. We continue

CUT FUEL, GET FIT!
In October 2011 VILNIUS SEAWAYS won the DFDS
Bunker Prize for reducing fuel use and emissions.
The prize motivates the crew to save fuel - the
vessel with the best performance wins a cash
prize to improve crew facilities onboard. The
crew decided to use the prize money to upgrade
their gym equipment amongst other appliances.
“I think that crew members here and on other
ships will be motivated to achieve even more
fuel savings in the future,” said the ship’s Captain
Konstantin Telik.

to use more environmentally-efficient
trailers and reefers, and work with
customers such as ASDA supermarkets in
the UK to run double-decker trailers for
improved greenhouse gas emissions per
carried pallet.
Collaboration continues with suppliers
in order to introduce more fuel-efficient
trucks . In Ireland for example, EURO 5
trucks will cut CO2 emissions further
compared to the EURO 3 vehicles. We are
working to replicate this throughout the
logistics business.
Air emissions
The shipping industry is subject to very
active legislative developments on air
emissions, and in particular sulphur
content in marine fuel oil is subject to
international regulatory controls. The
North Sea and the Baltic Sea, where
DFDS operates, are a so-called Sulphur
Emission Control Areas (SECAs). In 2015,


limits for sulphur levels in bunkers oil in
SECAs, reducing the sulphur content from
a maximum of 1.0% to 0.1%. Bunkers oil
with maximum 0.1% sulphur content is
between 40% and 70% more expensive
than bunker oil with 1.0% sulphur
implying a potential price increase on
seafreight of 20-30% which could have
a substantial impact on sea traffic in
Northern Europe, particularly on routes in
direct competition with land based traffic.
This could lead to a modal shift, where
sea traffic to a greater extent is replaced
by road traffic causing further congestion

on European roads, thus contradicting
the EU policy of moving traffic “from road
to sea”. The shipping industry supports
stricter regulations, but is also exploring
opportunities to adapt a modified policy.
A solution could be to allow the use of
bunker with a 0.5% sulphur level as studies show that the environmental impact
of 0.5% vs 0.1% is insignificant.
Nevertheless, DFDS is taking a pragmatic
and innovative course and also exploring
solutions using new technology. DFDS
teamed up with specialist supplier Alfa
Laval to trial new scrubber technology
in 2009, and became the first company
to fit a large sulphur scrubber in a ship.
Scrubbers remove Sulphur dioxide and
particulate matter from ship exhaust
gases. The wash-water is discharged
harmlessly under licence. The project is
led by our Technical Organisation with
close involvement of the ship’s crew and
the Danish EPA. The test project on FICARIA SEAWAYS shows good results. There
are some limiting factors affecting how
and where such scrubbers can be used.
These include scrubber size and weight,
installation complexity, ship stability and
age. We are actively engaging with the EU
on assistance to fund environmental investment. The European Maritime Safety
Agency and other relevant authorities are
involved in the testing and audit of the
results of the equipment.

“Operators will not be able to pass on higher fuel costs to customers with a choice
of transport modes, which will inevitably

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

51

CR REPORT

of on-shore power supply (OPS) so that
the auxiliary engines can be stopped completely when the ship is in port. We are
analysing and considering investments
++°°+í*1+>.1+ ,2=X+ding options for EU funding, to install OPS
equipment in Vlaardingen, Immingham,
Ghent, Esbjerg and Gothenburg, and on
the ships that use these ports.

LIMITS FOR PERMITTED SULPHUR CONTENT IN BUNKERS
(%)

5
4
3
2
1
0
2009
SECA

2010

2012

2015

2020

GLOBAL

push up to 50% of cargo off short-sea
ships and back on to the road network.
It’s also clear that the ongoing revision
of the EU Directive must put provisions
in place as to what should happen if
low-sulphur fuel is simply not available
to operators in 2015”
Johan Roos, Executive Director,
Interferry European Office 1.
Alternative fuels are also being considered. Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) may
be appropriate on some new vessels,
although the supply chain, pricing and
the actual implementation needs further
investigation and development. Whilst
we are ready to invest, we and our peers
fear that a switch to alternative scenarios
for our fleet will take longer than the EU
Directive deadline allows.
To combat local air emissions in ports,
shipping companies since 2010 have not
been permitted to use oil with sulphur
content greater than 0.1% when in port.
Local sulphur air pollution levels have
reduced by 90% as a result. In some ports
ô
+2+,
1ò
+,
+ñ	
2+>3ñ=+
using catalytic converters. Now we are
going further by investigating installation

1

52

DFDS is member of Interferry European Office.

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

Managing waste, recycling ships
Almost every activity on board and in a
logistics centre generates waste. The oil,
chemicals and water used for cleaning
purposes must be handled in accordance
with environmental regulations. On
board a ship, such discharge is collected
as bilge water below the engine room.
Before it can be released, it must first be
decontaminated to meet environmental
standards. We are in the final phase
of testing a new bilge water cleaning
system on PEARL SEAWAYS. Not only is
it successful, it is more efficient, more reliable, faster, cheaper to run and certified
to IMO rules.
Scrapping a vessel is a regulated
process, guided by IMO’s proposed
Hong Kong Convention 2009. DFDS is
committed to responsible scrappage. The
TOR ANGLIA was scrapped using a certified shipyard in China in 2010. In 2011
LISCO GLORIA was declared a total loss
following an extensive fire the previous
year. The ship, a 20,600 ton ferry under
a Lithuanian flag, will be recycled at
Klaipėda in Lithuania.
Future steps / Commitments 2015

logistics fuel consumption reductions
to be decided during 2012

developed to include DFDS Logistics
CO2 emissions

power supplies

CR REPORT

CUSTOMERS
OUR AIM IS TO CREATE AND PROTECT VALUE FOR
OUR FREIGHT CUSTOMERS AND PASSENGERS,
AND TO BE THEIR PREFERRED SUPPLIER
Highlights
+P(1+,lers, containers, and other
cargo every year on 25 routes

awards won in 2011

customer service
Our approach
DFDS constantly strives to deliver the
right solutions to customers through
continuous improvement of our network
in co-operation with carefully selected
partners.
DFDS’ staff work hard to understand
customers’ experiences of how we work.
Our customer ethics is a key value of The
DFDS Way. Delivery of this ethos is helped

across the business to meet, share best
practices and to learn from each other.
Customers increasingly expect us to be
accountable for our social and environmental responsibilities; this is evident
from tenders for example. We respond
to this by using specialists across DFDS
for their expert knowledge of certain
industries. Cost and service levels are
the main focus areas; environmental and
social issues are also discussed.
For freight customers, we provide clear
and up-to-date information on freight

com). This includes routes and schedules, terminal services, customer service,
and specific supply chain solutions for
example relating to chemicals, forest products, metals or automotive customers.
Recently, a new online customer satisfaction reporting system has enabled the
creation of reports for each ship over any
time period. Management teams now
have the latest customer feedback sent
to them by email every week. We operate

to a wide range of service standards
and know that customer demands differ
across different sectors as diverse as
seafood, metals, beverages, forest products and project cargo. At the heart of
the service at DFDS are specialist teams
designing bespoke solutions to meet
customer expectations through quality
and innovation.
Our freight safety management system is
designed for best practice and continuous
improvement. The high quality of our
products and services is guaranteed by
regular customer surveys and continual
improvement schemes. We ensure that
shipping schedules and other performance KPIs are met. We test our operations
through internal and independent audit
and certification. As an example, we
regularly have food hygiene inspections
from Port Health Authorities, and pride
ourselves on the safety of our food.
For our passengers we put together different teams in DFDS to share benefits
of collaboration on working practices in
response to changing expectations of our
services. For example, our joint Passenger Competence Centre aims to identify,
develop and disseminate best practices,
taking into account customers’ specific
local needs. We offer information online
in 14 languages.
Travel information, contact points including ‘instant chat’, passenger terms and
conditions, credit card policy, brochures
and guides, restaurant reservations and
tips on driving abroad are all provided for
passengers via our websites.

PROGRESS IN 2011
Our business-to-business customers
DFDS offers more than 350 shipping departures each week. Our comprehensive
network of strategically placed terminals and hubs operates around 8,000
trailers, containers, cassettes and swap

bodies and a total warehouse capacity
of 120,000 m2. DFDS integrates with rail
services and runs computerised solutions
to maximise efficiency.
Our challenge is to increase customer
service without increasing costs. We are
introducing common IT systems for passenger and freight, and we are simplifying
our contact procedures. We invested
DKK 60m (€8.1m) in our Logistics fleet
in 2011 and we work continuously with
our customers to develop initiatives that
save costs and increase efficiencies. One
example is ’back-hauling’, where every
effort is made to fill capacity in return
journeys.
We are proud of the awards we have won
including:

,tor 2010 awarded to DFDS Seaways by
The World Travel Awards for the fifth
year in a row


award for Best Intermodal Provider.
The judges were particularly impressed by our environmentally-efficient
solutions

of the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, awarded
our Rotterdam operation a 10,000
Euro prize for the most innovative
solution to reduce the number of tyre
breakdowns with trucks and trailers.
Our service offers customers regular
tyre checks and inflating services for
trailers, thereby improving safety and
reducing emissions.
DFDS’ focus on customer service and
responsible operations helps ensure
continuity of supply during any extreme
weather such as the unusually cold and
snowy conditions across the UK at the
end of 2010 and the succession of severe
storms that hit the North Sea region in
autumn 2011. Maintaining a safe service
meant there would be some delays and

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

53

CR REPORT

so our Logistics teams kept in close contact with our customers to agree shipping
volumes and prioritise deliveries. Our
performance has also been recognised
by awards and commendations from a
number of key customers including Opel
and ASDA.
Our passengers (B2C)
Around 4.4m people travel with DFDS
every year. Sea travel is convenient for
travelling by car and a relaxing part of
a journey. Overnight cruises also offer a
maritime experience and good value for
money.
Passenger service awards won include:

‘World’s Leading Ferry Operator Award
2011’ at the World Travel Awards in
Doha on 11 January

based on an extensive survey of 82 of
the country’s biggest customer service
centres. DFDS won the “ship travel”
category for the second year running,
and finished overall in third place


ways as its Recommended Provider
for ferry travel. DFDS scored above
average in all aspects, especially ease
of booking and value for money

ferry operator’ in the Virgin Holidays
Responsible Tourism Award 2011. The
International Centre for Responsible
Tourism recognised DFDS’s commitment to setting up and funding a
collaborative project with whale and
dolphin conservation charity, ORCA, to
monitor wildlife and develop marine
protection zones in the North Sea.
Passenger engagement is encouraged
using online questionnaires. We recently
saw an increase of more than 400% over
the traditional paper version on one route
alone, with over 20,000 responses. We
want to understand further, and improve,
the customer experience. Fostering open
and transparent dialogue is crucial to this.
We welcome the chance to show how we
work. Indeed, a BBC documentary ‘Food
Fighters’ filmed on PRINCESS SEAWAYS
showcased the processes that goes
into making food safe. Our kitchens
and restaurants were hailed as an
example of best practice.

54

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

Customers receive messages on important issues such as safety, both onboard
and ashore. DFDS transports tens of thousands of people going on skiing holidays
in Norway. With the Danish national skiing club and other partners we offered a
24-page booklet on ski safety to all skiing
passengers when they check in. The booklet provides practical advice to reduce the
risk of injury and a smartphone application to access safety information and to
test safety knowledge.
With respect to our ferry business, we
note that other varied projects make
a valuable contribution to the wider
customer experience. The ORCA initiative,
over three years, involved more than 100
marine wildlife surveys onboard and a
new Wildlife Watching mini-cruise. We
wanted to go beyond our statutory obligations and find where we could make a
difference to marine conservation.
DFDS Seaways also funded two Wildlife
Officers to raise awareness of whales,
dolphins and porpoises in the North Sea,
while collecting information to support
sightings undertaken by a team of ORCA
surveyors each month. They run deck
watches with customers on wildlife minicruises using the Newcastle-Amsterdam
ferry route, and provide a range of educational information.
An educational service was started by our
Lithuania office to introduce reading corners on REGINA SEAWAYS and LISCO MAXIMA. Shelves for books and frames for
magazines were mounted; Klaipeda city
libraries and some employees donated
the books and the Magazines Printing
Group offered magazines for free.
Future steps / Commitments 2015


beginning of Q2 2012 to run for the
rest of 2012


their journey on a map of Northern
Europe showing real-time position of
ships, including arrival information

management system to provide more
information such as energy efficiency
per unit shipped to help measure and
reduce the carbon footprint of customer and own operations.

CR REPORT

SUPPLIERS
+®++0+®3®  +°+3+®ð®  + #04+
IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN. ROBUST RELATIONSHIPS WITH
SUPPLIERS ENSURES RESPONSIBLE AND EFFICIENT
SERVICES TO CUSTOMERS

Highlights

47 vessels: around 5,000 purchase
orders each month

3,100 trailers

management tools in place, and
under development


ethical Code of Conduct
Our approach
DFDS’ supply chain connects many suppliers, modes of transport and countries.
Within it we strive to create and protect
commercial value affected by issues relating to security, product safety, quality,
environmental protection and social responsibility. DFDS’ Supply Chain Management (SCM) teams aim to help minimize
the risk and maximize the security of the
supply network and reduce acquisition
and administration costs through working
together across the DFDS Group.
The SCM function sits within the Finance division of DFDS. SCM comprises
procurement, demand and supply and
special project functions. Its day-to-day
work directly affects the profitability
of DFDS and suppliers: it involves price
negotiations, contractual arrangements,
risk management, working with business
units, inventory management and monitoring. To ensure regulatory compliance, we
revise our supply chain policies and our
ethical code for suppliers.
We assess our supply base for its costeffectiveness, resilience, safety and other
risks. On land and at sea, DFDS demands
that suppliers operate in a decent and
respectful manner. In the shipping
business, for example, our audit programme checks that a supplier is on the
relevant maritime authority database as
required under the EU Marine Equipment
Directive 1996. A supplier will achieve
the Wheelmark and be included in the

database if it satisfies the criteria. DFDS
follows the Global Ship Management
System approach to check that a supplier meets safety and environmental
requirements – that it has achieved its
Wheelmark.
Since 2009, the DFDS Supplier Code of
Conduct has been a part of all DFDS’
purchasing and business agreements. Ultimately, when a contract is signed with
a supplier in our shipping and logistics
businesses, the DFDS Supplier Code of
Conduct is attached to it. This outlines
DFDS’ commitments to applying ethical
principles in business and respecting
human rights.
The DFDS Supplier Code of Conduct
To do business with DFDS a supplier must
comply with all applicable international
conventions and national legislation in
the country where the work or service is
being performed, and specifically it must
respect the following:

or involuntary labour

workplace

Principles and Rights at Works

on grounds of race, religion,
age, nationality, sexual orientation
or gender

and anti-bribery, including all subcontractors and business partners

in the country where the product is
manufactured or the service performed.
During the discussion on DFDS’ strategic
approach to CR and the identification of
our key material issues, responsible procurement is identified as having potential
impact on brand, reputation, relationships
and customer orders. Our supply chain
teams work closely with suppliers on a

day-to-day basis and suppliers’ feedback
and innovations are valued by DFDS.
Progress in 2011
In 2011 the SCM team numbered 17 people
working out of Denmark, UK and Lithuania.
In 2011 we established a new centralised
SCM operation and a new integrated
purchasing system is under development.
Whilst contracts are managed locally, a
corporate SCM database will allow detailed corporate-level analysis of supplier
profiles, numbers, issues, feedback and
benchmarks, for example. The database is
due for release in 2012 and 2013.
Alongside The DFDS Way, collaboration
and engagement are central to responsible procurement. We can report a good
start on a new shared approach to how we
work with suppliers on bunker delivery.
Our Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) pilot
project intends to reduce costs, improve
service, share risks and rewards, exchange
information openly and enhance transparency and trust. It’s a strategic alliance
where the supplier makes re-fuelling
decisions for the buyer. As well as cost
and sales benefits it will help improve
punctuality and security of supply.
In 2011 we adopted a new ‘efficient trailer
working group’ in our logistics business.
The group has ensured that the policies,
procedures, investments, efficiency and
cost associated with our 3,100 trailers are
consistent and appropriate for DFDS’ needs. Policies for review will cover purchase
and disposal, trailer mix, standardising
equipment, maintenance. The group coordinates with our Project Headlight, which
is reviewing all aspects of equipment
operation, supplier agreements and trailer
procurement in 2012.
Future steps / Commitments 2015

in 2012 and 2013

internal agreement

DFDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011

55

