CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
“There is a natural link between corporate governance and social responsibility. Fundamentally, we believe that all strategic decisions made in the company
should strike a healthy balance between ambitions,
values and risks.”
It is a central element in Harboe’s strategy that the group’s continued
growth and development should be sustainable. Eﬀective utilisation of resources and positive relations to the company’s stakeholders are essential
to Harboe’s future value creation. Harboe’s work on responsibility is rooted
in a policy based on a commercial prioritisation based on value optimisation and risk mitigation.
The group has decided to focus on the following four focus areas within

Annual report 2010/11

23

MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW
corporate social responsibility: climate and environment, employees and
occupational health and safety, quality and health and community relations.
As a member of the Danish Brewers’ Association, Harboe supports the industry’s responsibility initiatives and participates in the ongoing reporting
within the industry’s focus areas.
CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT
Harboe’s objective is to minimise the resources used in the production
process as much as possible compared to the overall production volume
and thereby reduce the environmental impact of the company’s activities.
Harboe’s production facilities are optimised at regular intervals to ensure
an up-to-date, eﬃcient and flexible production process. All investments in
new production technology, optimisations of existing production facilities
and all product and packaging development take into account resource
use and general environmental impact.
All the group’s units are certified according to international quality and
environmental standards.
Harboe prepares green accounts for its production unit in Skælskør containing information about raw material, water and energy consumption as
well as emissions, wastewater discharge and waste disposal.
Investments were also made in the past financial year to maintain and optimise the group’s production facilities, including the installation of a new
steam boiler in Skælskør, which has significantly reduced energy consumption. The experience gathered from last year’s investments in a new evaporation plant and CO2 capture system is also positive. CO2 is now systematically captured and reused in Denmark and Germany, and the energy
savings can pay for the investment in the plants in just two years.
The logistics area also saw investments in optimisation measures. Based on
an overall analysis of inventory management, several changes were made
to the warehouse facilities’ infrastructures during the financial year, which
led to improved eﬃciency and significant reductions in internal warehouse
transport.
In the past year, the energy ambassadors appointed at the production unit
in Skælskør have considered how operations and maintenance in production can be optimised. This proved to be a success, and many ideas for improvements and streamlining of processes and energy consumption were
gathered and executed during the year.
In the coming year, the group expects to implement an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system in all the group’s production units. The system will be the starting point for Harboe’s eﬀorts to control and monitor
quality standards, dividend percentages, energy consumption etc. across

group units and will form the basis for forward-looking, specific objectives
and reporting with a view to further optimisation of production.
EMPLOYEES AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
Harboe wants to be an attractive workplace that is able to attract, retain
and develop the talents necessary to ensure the continued development of
the group.
Harboe’s corporate culture is based on responsibility, cooperation, quality
and results. Employees at Harboe are oﬀered competitive pay and employment conditions in accordance with applicable collective agreements,
good practice and international standards in the area. Furthermore, the
employees are oﬀered ongoing training to ensure continued improvement
of employee skills.
The health and well-being of its employees is important to Harboe. In addition to an attractive canteen option, the group oﬀers its employees personal advice and activities relating to weight loss, smoking cessation etc.
Harboe is dedicated to ensuring a safe working environment that seeks to
prevent absence due to illness and injury. Harboe is constantly investing in
training and development activities to ensure that its employees are optimally geared to carrying out their duties in a safe and eﬃcient manner.
Further training programmes for employees were also completed this year.
In line with the group’s strategy, preparations have been made for the
health and safety certification of the production unit in Skælskør. The final
certification is expected to take place during Q1 2011/12. Several processes
were optimised in connection with the certification, and in future the certification will enable a more structured, ongoing follow-up in this area.
In the coming year, eﬀorts will go into achieving the goal that all the group’s
units must obtain health and safety certification.
QUALITY AND HEALTH
As an international drinks manufacturer and supplier to food companies
worldwide, product quality and safety is paramount. Harboe will meet the
highest food safety standards by using raw materials that ensure a high and
uniform quality throughout the entire value chain – from raw material to
the finished product.
Harboe’s requirements as to the quality of the raw materials purchased
from suppliers follow this ambition and are evaluated systematically.
Investments in quality improvements and optimisation of production facilities are made to ensure that Harboe meets new requirements and expectations for quality and hygiene at all times. All the group’s production
units are certified in accordance with international quality standards, and
systematic follow-up and control are carried out.

Annual report 2010/11

25

MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW
The market is seeing a growing consumer demand for healthier products.
Harboe continues to focus intensively on innovation in order to meet this
demand.
Finally, Harboe supports the industry’s standards for responsible marketing
of alcohol and the information activities carried out under the auspices of
the Danish Brewers’ Association.
Harboe will continue to focus on quality and health in the coming year as
well. In this context, the implementation of the ERP system is expected to
contribute to optimised control of the quality standards, and the further
development activities within malt extract and other areas, are essential to
meeting the demand for more natural and nutritious products.
EXTERNAL RELATIONS
It is an integral part of Harboe’s management philosophy and fundamental
values that the company has a good and constructive relationship with its
stakeholders, based on professionalism, open dialogue and mutual respect.
The group’s business ethical policies regulate its relations to business partners.

standards, and the group has developed a number of standard requirements regarding quality, reliable deliveries and responsibility which are incorporated into the supplier agreements. Harboe’s suppliers are primarily
EU-based partners where agreements follow applicable EU standards for
compliance with human rights in the value chain, prevention of corruption
etc.
Harboe is strongly rooted in the local community, and being aware of the
responsibility that naturally comes from being an integral part of the communities in which the company operates is a key element of the group’s
values. In recent years, Harboe has thus supported many relevant local
sports activities, cultural events and charities.
In the coming year, Harboe will work on further strengthening and expanding the professional and mutually value creating collaboration with suppliers and other partners. The process will focus particularly on the continued
internationalisation of the business and the relations established in new
markets where regulation and practice deviate from EU standards.

Harboe’s relations to its suppliers and other partners are also based on
agreements and contracts being drafted in accordance with international

Annual report 2010/11

27

