Report on corporate social responsibility 2011
Jyske Bank is aware of the banking sector’s general importance to society, including
importance in respect of financial stability, and in accordance with legislation and business
circumstances, the Group fulfils its role in this respect.
In all respects, Jyske Bank strives to operate an honest, fair and responsible business in
respect of the Group’s values and views as well as in a way that upholds the balance between
shareholders, customers and employees.
Generally, Jyske Bank does not wish to be bound by charters or declarations on responsibility;
nor has the Group implemented specific policies on social, ethical and environmental issues.
In actual practice, the responsibility of Jyske Bank materialises as a natural ingredient of the
Group’s policies on all relevant areas and will always be based on current legislation in the
area and specific business circumstances.
In the opinion of Jyske Bank, satisfactory results were achieved in 2011 from its work with
corporate social responsibility. It is expected that this work will continue in 2012.

Investment
Jyske Bank seeks to optimise its customers’ investments on the basis of their risk profiles.
Jyske Bank takes corporate social responsibility in connection with investments, meaning that
environmental, corporate social and corporate governance (ESG) issues are included in the
investment decisions.
Jyske Bank has signed the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which is a joint
declaration on corporate social responsibility in connection with investments and the fulfilment
of six key principles for responsible investment.
Jyske Bank cooperates with other investors to exercise active ownership in relation to
companies with ESG challenges.
Jyske Bank has entered into an agreement with an external adviser, from whom Jyske Bank
twice annually receives a screening report on companies seriously violating international norms
or conventions.
In order to assess the reports from the external adviser, decide on the contribution to the
cooperation with other investors on active ownership and in order to act in situations involving
ESG challenges, Jyske Bank has established an internal committee, which can quickly be
convened to decide on Jyske Bank’s stance on the individual investment or the individual
company.
Exercising responsibility when selecting investments is a very complicated matter. Opinions
differ widely when it comes to responsible investment. Investors, authorities, media, politicians
and interest groups have varying definitions of the concept. Jyske Bank does not wish to be
bound by certain conventions or international charters. Jyske Bank wishes to be at liberty to
assess which companies and industries it will invest in on the basis of corporate social
responsibility.
In 2011 Jyske Bank joined DANSIF, Danish Social Investment Forum, an impartial forum for
players with a substantial interest in socially responsible investment.
Jyske Bank prepares a separate report on its work with responsible investment according to
the guidelines of the PRI, and upon completion this report will be available on
www.jyskebank.info.

Environment and energy
Jyske Bank’s view of environment and energy is in line with its wish to create a setting that
ensures a good working environment. Based on common sense, Jyske Bank is continuously

reviewing its energy consumption and chooses installations and solution with a view to
minimising energy consumption.
Jyske Bank is taking measures in respect of conserving energy; for instance by
•
•
•
•

being critical of technologies being installed in Jyske Bank's properties;
assessing installations in respect of their operating life and energy consumption;
viewing architecture as a means to minimise energy consumption;
focusing on possibilities of utilising alternative energy sources.

In 2011, the Group put into service a new ‘low energy class 2’ building for IT operations; this
building is prepared for future use of alternative sources of energy as such new opportunities
arise.
In 2011, Jyske Bank’s expenses for electricity fell by 16% relative to 2010, and overall the
expenses for electricity, water and heating fell by 7%.
When printing marketing materials, the Group uses products with the Nordic Ecolabel
(products with this Ecolabel have the least possible impact on the environment). Such products
are used whether the marketing materials are printed by the Group’s own printing shop by an
external printing shop. The same applies to paper used in printers throughout the Group.

Employees
An important element of the employee policy of Jyske Bank is that the Group shall constitute a
place of work where lasting relations are created in a productive, trusting and unpretentious
working environment characterised by reserves of strength and positive energy Another
important principle is that Jyske Bank is a socially responsible employer within the limits set by
the market economy under which Jyske Bank operates.
In September 2011, Jyske Bank was forced to lay off a substantial number of employees to
improve the balance between income and expenses. The process as well as the terms and
conditions for the lay-offs had been negotiated with Jyske Bank Kreds (Finansforbundet – i.e.
the Financial Services Union Denmark) and entail that Jyske Bank offers contributions to the
employees given notice of dismissal, enabling them to participate in training and outplacement
programmes. At the turn of the year, only a few of these training and outplacement
programmes had been completed. It is expected that, in the six to twelve-month term, more
than 80% of the participating employees will have found new employment.
Despite this necessary reduction in the number of employees, Jyske Bank is conscious that the
corporate social responsibility of an employer very much involves facilitating the access of
young people to jobs and education and offering employees the possibility of training and
development that will make them attractive and valuable in the job market. Considering the
prospects of changing structures and lower employment in the Danish financial sector, the
Group has decided to employ fewer newly qualified candidates than was previously the case,
yet they will still form a significant part of the inflow of employees.
Jyske Bank supports the work on voluntary debt counselling instigated by the Danish Ministry
of Social Affairs and Integration and a number of organisations by encouraging account
managers and advisers to take part in this work by offering them time off with pay covering
half the time they spend on such debt counselling. Currently six employees participate in this
scheme.

Customers
In its credit policy, Jyske Bank emphasises the importance of responsible conduct towards
customers as well as guarantors.
The basis of Jyske Bank’s concept for advisory services to corporate customers is that of
strategic dialogue that will ensure the customer an overview of opportunities available to and
risks facing him. This entails, among other things, a dialogue about circumstances relating to

the customer’s corporate social responsibility. According to analyses, corporate customers rate
Jyske Bank’s advisory services as satisfactory, but there is no particular measurement
indicating the outcome of the dialogue about issues relating to the customer’s corporate social
responsibility.

Jyske Banks Almennyttige Fond and Medarbejderfond (the Jyske Bank NonProfit Fund and the Jyske Bank Employee Fund)
Jyske Bank has established Jyske Banks Almennyttige Fond; the purpose of this non-profit
fund is to further charitable causes as well as the development of trade and industry. Hence,
by giving prizes, etc., several activities of a varying nature all over the country have been
supported over a number of years.
Moreover, Jyske Bank has established Jyske Banks Medarbejderfond, of which the purpose is
to support current and former employees of Jyske Bank.
The funds' capability to render support depends on the return on their contributed capital.
According to the Articles of Association, the majority of the contributed capital is invested in
Jyske Bank shares, and because the Jyske Bank share in line with other bank shares is still
very much affected by the financial crisis, the funds' reserves - and hence their distributions are currently limited.
This statutory report constitutes part of the management's review in the Annual Report 2011
of Jyske Bank.

