ANNUAL REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW

The policy confirms the Group's obligation to act ethically
in the performance of our activities. It sets out our obligations in relation to integrity, fairness and corporate
social responsibility. We have integrated the UN Global
Compact's ten principles relating to human rights, labour
rights, the environment and good business ethics in our
CSR policy.

Our CSR policy consists of the following main elements:

Business conduct
Human rights
Employee rights
Anti-corruption
Environment

Among other things, the policy states that the Group
condemns bribery, forced labour or child labour and does
not tolerate any discrimination.

We handle CSR issues in a manner that ensures that all
employees in the Group and suppliers are aware of our
positions and guidelines. We continuously ensure that
our procedures and processes support the policy. All
standards are integrated in the internal systems of the
business areas and subsidiaries, and regular audits are
conducted. These also cover our partners.

In the following, we will report on policies, actions and
results in the areas of health and safety, which are part
of labour rights, and the environment. In that connection, we will also report on key aspects of these areas.

In the Group, we have positions on other CSR issues, for
example in the areas of human rights and anticorruption, for which we do not, however, carry out
planning, measurement and follow-up to the same extent. For example, we have a Code of Conduct for suppliers and we focus on training, recruiting and developing
the construction and civil engineering employees of the
future. Our action in these areas is described in the
business conduct section.

Corporate social responsibility

Prevention of injuries
We want to avoid occupational injuries, among other
things by promoting a culture that focuses on the health
and safety of employees.

The MT Højgaard Group’s statutory reporting on corporate social responsibility (CSR) is set out below.

This puts us under an obligation to prevent injuries and
work-related illness by ensuring that employees are
trained and instructed to perform their work and that the
right conditions are present to enable them to perform
their tasks.

The Group's CSR policy applies to all employees in the
business areas and all wholly-owned companies. Each of
the business areas and companies also has a number of
independent policies based on the CSR policy but drawn
up in relation to the strategies, specialist field and organisation of the specific business area or company. As
the various companies in the Group are very different in
size and structure, they work independently with the
areas to suit their needs as appropriate.

The work on the prevention of injuries takes place in the
business areas or in each subsidiary.
Actions, results and objectives
The business areas and subsidiaries continually strive to
improve their health and safety initiatives.

14

ANNUAL REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW

Methods employed include visits and internal audits on
construction sites. Health and safety are regularly
mapped and systematic risk assessments of our activities
in Denmark, Europe and Greenland are carried out.

Actions, results and objectives
Construction and building materials can have a wideranging impact on the environment. Therefore, we have
implemented a number of measures to reduce the impact
on the environment across the Group.

MT Højgaard, Ajos, Enemærke & Petersen and Scandi
Byg have health and safety certification to DS/OHSAS
18001:2008. In this connection, the business areas and
subsidiaries are audited by a certification agency twice a
year in the Danish market and once a year abroad. Lindpro is working to obtain certification in 2012.

Measures in 2011 included the installation of 253 new
heat pumps to replace the traditional electric heaters in
our site huts. The total number of heat pumps is now up
to 512 out of a total of 600. This has resulted in an electricity saving of over 50% per annum.

There is a Group focus on individual injury frequencies
and the business areas and subsidiaries have independent targets.

Ajos has been replacing work pavilions with greener
versions on a rolling basis. In 2011, the company began
using 85 new pavilions. The new pavilions use approximately 50% less electricity for heating than the previous
ones.

In 2011, the business areas set a joint target of achieving an injury frequency of less than 8 per one million
hours worked and of reducing the number of lost time
injuries time of 1-4 days by 10%.

In 2009, motion sensors were installed in all of Construction's and Civil Engineering's site huts. This produces an
annual electricity saving of approximately 50%.

The target was not met as the injury frequency was 8.7.
This is still one of the best results in the industry, but it
is not satisfactory as every injury is one too many. The
target of reducing lost time injuries of 1-4 days by 10%
was achieved with a reduction of 17.5%, partly as a
result of focusing on the use of GangSupport.

The use of double-sided printing by Scandi Byg, Civil
Engineering and Construction, among others, resulted in
a 12% reduction in the use of paper in the Group in
2011, equivalent to a saving of 1.6 million sheets of A4
paper, despite the fact that revenue increased considerably.

The business areas consider that the frequency can be
reduced further. Therefore, Civil Engineering and Construction will, in future, delegate action and responsibility
to the local divisions to a greater extent rather than
using the current centralised approach. This will allow the
divisions to work more on changing behaviour, making
even more progress in preventing injuries.

Several other measures have been introduced within the
Group in recent years. In the business areas, these have
included the introduction of a new company car policy
and the reduction of electricity consumption in the offices, for example via energy saving power strips and
energy renovation. Lindpro has changed van supplier to
reduce the company's fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Scandi Byg is in the process of changing its heating from natural gas to district heating in all production
buildings.

Moreover, the business areas will focus on targeted
induction of and communication to employees, the
preparation of instructions, also for small tasks, and the
use of GangSupport. They will also focus to a greater
extent on assessment health and safety risks in the
project planning.

Across the Group, the opportunities for further energy
efficiency are being considered continuously. In 2012,
the business areas expect to implement a new travel
policy in order to reduce the number of overseas trips
and to promote car sharing and electronic meetings,
among other things.

Therefore, Construction and Civil Engineering continue to
have an ambitious objective of reducing the injury frequency to less than 5 in the business areas by the end of
2013 and of reducing the number of lost time injuries of
1-4 days by a further 10% in 2012.

Business conduct
Code of Conduct for suppliers
In the Group, we are ambitious about our own conduct,
so we also set requirements for our suppliers. When we
make a Group agreement with a supplier of building
materials, the supplier undertakes to comply with national legislation and regulations and meet specific requirements for quality, health and safety and the environment. To ensure that our standards are met, the
business areas and subsidiaries conduct inspection visits
and audits or have them conducted by third-party auditors.

Environment
We want to take care of the environment in the Group.
We want to ensure that our employees are always
trained to perform their tasks in an environmentally
sound manner in compliance with the existing rules.
We encourage the development and spread of technologies that promote environmentally sound solutions.
Our environmental measures are based on the need to
comply with environmental legislation in the countries in
which the Group has a presence and the environmental
requirements made by our customers.

15

ANNUAL REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW

In the event of non-compliance with the Group's standards, we reserve the right to end the business partnership.

Skills development
As a large Group, we have a responsibility to contribute
to as many people as possible receiving training. We
offer apprenticeships, work experience and job rotation,
and the MT Højgaard Group now has just under 8% of its
employees in training. We want to increase this figure to
10% at the rate that is possible, considering finances,
safety and the quality of the training courses offered.

We also focus on in-service training. For example, 12
local employees in Greenland were offered further training to qualify them to take on more specialist, more
responsible jobs when the drilling season begins again
next year.
Over several years, Enemærke & Petersen has supported
an ambitious school project in the town of Nkwenda in
Tanzania via Danmission. The project involves helping 12
local pupils help themselves by sponsoring their training
in various trades such as bricklaying, carpentry and
joinery. This secures local development and growth.

Retention of older employees
For many years, Enemærke & Petersen has made an
extra effort for older employees and has previously been
awarded the Danish ‘Senior Praksis’ prize of the year for
the company's policy on older employees.

The purpose of the policy is to make it as attractive as
possible for employees to continue their active working
lives for as long as they want to. For Enemærke & Petersen, it means that the company retains solid, experienced skills. The activities carried out by the company
include an annual conference for older employees, an
annual health check and subsidies for sport. The result is
that the younger employees can be trained up by more
experienced employees to the benefit of the business
and to avoid occupational injuries and attrition.

16

