CSR
2011 was a year with considerable
changes at NeuroSearch. We have had to
say goodbye to many highly appreciated
employees, and the company has been
affected by important restructurings. Still
we have continued our CSR work, both on
a strategic level and in our daily work.

Work environment
At NeuroSearch, work environment has
high priority in all areas. One of our CRS
objectives for 2010 was to implement a
work environment management system.
In 2011, such a system was implemented
to ensure systematic follow-up on employee health and job satisfaction as well
as accidents and dangerous incidents.
By the end of 2011, a survey of the psychological work environment was carried
out and it was followed up at the beginning of 2012.
We have taken various initiatives to draw
attention to our employees’ health and
well-being: free access to exercise room,
fresh fruit and locker rooms to encourage
employees to exercise before, during and
after work. We participate in the campaign
“We cycle to work” in May of each year
as well as in the yearly DHL Relay Race.
So far, we have supported mobile blood
donation together with our neighbour
company, Struers, but this activity was
closed down by the end of 2011.

In connection with the employee reduction
in 2011, it was our aim to treat all
discharged employees fairly and to give
them a good and respectful compensation
package.
In early 2012, NeuroSearch will participate
in a regional health project together with
other local companies, DSB S-train, four
municipalities and the Danish Cyclists’
Federation in order to identify NeuroSearch
as a cycle friendly company. This initiative
is expected to further increase attention on
healthy and environment friendly transport
among our employees.

Procurement policy
In 2011, NeuroSearch prepared supplier
guidelines based on the ten UN Global
Compact principles. Later, we conducted
an audit of one of our suppliers as
part of an audit pilot project. The UN
Global Compact principles have been
communicated to our main suppliers in
mutual contracts as well as in-house.
Due to the restructuring of the company,
NeuroSearch expects an substantial
decline in the number of direct suppliers
in 2012. Our procurement policy will be
adjusted accordingly, and subcontractors
will be required to pass on the company’s
guidelines to their own suppliers.

Animal welfare policy

28

NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR

The aim for 2011 was to implement the
principles of the Danish Ministry of Justice
regarding Reduction, Refinement and
Replacement (RRR) in the daily work with
animals. The RRR work is described in
the company’s animal welfare policy and
is currently debated in the project groups.
NeuroSearch requires that our suppliers
of laboratory animals document valid ISO
9001 accreditation or US Assessment and
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care
International.

The objective for 2011 has been
successfully implemented, but in the
future NeuroSearch will outsource animal
testing as the company no longer has
sufficient capacity to carry out animal
testing. Consequently, the objective
for 2012 has been adjusted to the new
circumstances, and the objective is
therefore an updated supplier contract in
which NeuroSearch will require suppliers
of animal tests to be in accordance with
the RRR principles. NeuroSearch intends
to extend the RRP principles by adding
other relevant conditions to the contracts.

Environment and climate
One of the objectives for 2011 was to
reduce the company’s CO2 emissions.
In 2011, NeuroSearch moved from natural
gas heating to district heating, and we
anticipate that this change will reduce our
CO2 emissions by 60% in 2012 compared
to 2011.

60

PER CENT REDUCTION IN CO2
EMISSIONS IS EXPECTED IN 2012
AS NEUROSEARCH SWAPPED FROM
NATURAL GAS TO DISTRICT HEATING IN THE SECOND HALF OF 2011

An optimisation of our IT infrastructure
was not realised in 2011 due to cutbacks. IT equipment which is no longer
in use in-house will be sold via a sales
database, and if it cannot be sold, IT
tools and equipment will be given away
to relevant educational institutions.
In the future, all cleaning detergents
must be approved by the work environment manager. In addition, all cleaning detergents must be swan labelled
(Nordic green label).
In 2011, NeuroSearch initiated an analysis process regarding the company’s
impact on the climate, including CO2
emissions, and the results, which are expected in the beginning of 2012, will form
the basis of precise targets for 2012.

Knowledge management

Anti-corruption

Therefore, we focus on knowledge management, which we define as the part of
the management process that involves procuring, organising, sharing, developing and consolidating knowledge resources.

As part of our anti-corruption objectives
for 2011, we have updated our standard
contracts to ensure that our collaboration
partners in business areas that are vulnerable to corruption commit themselves
and their subcontractors to comply with
our anti-corruption principles. Internally, we have centralised our approval
process for external consultants and
other suppliers in business-critical areas,
including clinical studies and marketing,
in order to reduce the risk of corruption.
To further strengthen the anti-corruption
efforts in NeuroSearch, we will identify
the critical areas within our business
in 2012 and prepare our employees to
handle critical situations correctly.
The Corporate Social Report (CSR
Report) is available in full at
www.neurosearch.com/Default.
aspx?ID=8300

Knowledge management at NeuroSearch is important in ensuring the innovative
and targeted application of academic knowledge in the development of patentable and commercially attractive products. Only through constant building up
and application of knowledge, will it be possible for NeuroSearch to maintain its
position as an innovative drug development company.

Focus on new opportunities
To strengthen innovation power in NeuroSearch, it is important that new knowledge is constantly being generated, developed and validated.
The main activity in NeuroSearch is to generate new knowledge through clinical
studies and generation of related clinical data.
The Project Development Board ensures that projects are frequently challenged
on progress, timelines and budgets, and the status is conveyed to the management via the monthly management report.
NeuroSearch is actively pursuing patents on the company’s proprietary compounds, and the NeuroSearch patent portfolio is constantly monitored and
developed to ensure the best possible exploitation of the inherent value.
We also emphasise the need to publish peer reviewed articles in high impact
journals as well as the need to present scientific results at relevant conferences. In order to optimise the commercial as well as academic output from
knowledge creation in NeuroSearch, we have formed the Publication Strategy
Committee which oversees all such activities and contributes to optimal timing, consistency and relevance of publications. The committee makes all its
decisions available to the organisation, whereby the knowledge is diffused and
anchored in the company.

KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT NEUROSEARCH 2011

Work environment at
NeuroSearch has high priority
and we continually initiate steps
to enhance the awareness of
health among the employees

29

