STATUTORY STATEMENT ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Statutory statement on social responsibility
Ringkjøbing Landbobank has always been strongly anchored throughout its long history
in the local communities where it is represented, and the bank has seen it as an entirely natural part of its business base to support local development. The bank has also,
via management’s implementation of and attitude to the recommendations for good
corporate governance, focused on those matters which govern the interplay with the
bank’s primary interested parties, namely its shareholders and customers, its management and employees and the local areas in which the bank’s branches are situated.
The bank’s policy on social responsibility is based on a wish to run a responsible and
value-creating bank which consciously works to create the best possible results for shareholders, customers, employees, the local community, the environment and the bank
itself.
For the bank, it is a matter of being an active partner in the local and regional associations and sporting life in the towns and areas in which the bank’s branches are situated.
The bank does this via numerous sponsorships both at the elite level, but especially at
the broad general level so that as many people as possible beneﬁt from the support
which the bank provides to various associations every year.
The bank’s local and regional commitment is a cornerstone in our business philosophy
and one of the reasons why the bank has been able to retain its position as a local and
locally known partner to many of the area’s businesses and private families, but also for
the bank’s customers throughout Denmark.
With respect to its employees, the bank also takes its social responsibility seriously. Initiatives within employee skills development and training as well as activities which promote
health and wellbeing are some of the reasons why Ringkjøbing Landbobank is considered an attractive place to work. Over the years, the bank has thus had many employees
who have celebrated both their twenty-ﬁfth and their fortieth anniversaries with the
bank. The bank also assumes a considerable level of responsibility in connection with
the education of new trainees. In 2011, there was particular focus on the development
of employees’ expertise in the area of consultancy on pensions. Via its partnership with
Letpension, the bank has access to a number of attractive pension products which, in
combination with well-qualiﬁed employees, make it possible to offer a product which is
tailored to the individual customer’s needs. This service has been well-received by the
bank’s customers, and in 2012 the bank expects to continue its training activities in the
area of pensions.
Ringkjøbing Landbobank is also focused on the environment. The bank thus tries to limit
the energy consumption associated with its operations, and there is focus on environmentally correct recycling of the waste products which the bank’s operations generate.
We also maintain a focus on the reorganisation of activities from paper to IT-based procedures, which also helps to reduce the bank’s total environmental impact.
A common feature of the bank’s initiatives within the area of social responsibility is
that they must help to emphasise Ringkjøbing Landbobank’s position as an ethical and
sustainable company to the bank’s interested parties - to its shareholders, customers and
employees and to the surrounding world.
The bank’s website www.landbobanken.dk provides a more detailed account of the
bank’s social responsibility, including the policies in the area.
ANNUAL REPORT 2011

PA G E 3 1

