
Corporate social responsibility
Veloxis' policies regarding corporate social responsibility comprise partly our working environment and partly business partners and suppliers. We do not expect to make material capital
investments as a result of the planned initiatives within corporate social responsibility. Moreover, we do not expect that the
activities will require significantly increased administrative resources compared with previously.
ENVIRONMENT
Veloxis is an emerging speciality pharmaceutical company without significant production facilities, and hence the Group's consumption of energy and other natural resources and its discharges of substances into the air and water are limited. Veloxis
routinely works with chemical substances which place stringent
demands for comprehensive environmental and safety efforts to
minimize adverse effects on the environment and human
health. The Group complies with applicable legal requirements,
directives and international agreements in the area.
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
The objective of our working environment activities is to create
continuous improvements in relation to the safety, health and
workplace satisfaction of our employees. In order to ensure that
Veloxis remains a safe workplace, we continuously monitor our
performance:

Assessment of absent due to the working environment.
Assessment of incidents and nearby incidents related to
working environment.
Established a WESO (work environment safety organization)
group which meet five times a year.
Internal audit performed annually to ensure that all safety
policies are adhered to.

Throughout the year only a few minor incidents have occurred
and has been handled by the WESO organization as part of their
work and oversight.
Further we are in the proces of establishing a whistleblower system that all employees can use anonymously to contact the
audit committee if they experience non-compliance with Veloxis'
policies and procedures.
BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS
Veloxis' policy for business partners and suppliers is to work to
promote good business conduct and reasonable environmental
and social standards with those with whom we do business.
Our policy for business partners and suppliers is incorporated
into our quality assurance system. When entering into agreements with external business partners and suppliers we ensure
that we have a right to make control visits to our external business partners and suppliers to ensure that our requirements are
met.

During the year we have performed 10 visits and audits at our
most important partners and suppliers in U.S., EU, China and
India, to ensure that all of our quality requirements were adhered to. The visits did not result in any material remarks.
This information forms the statutory report on corporate social
responsibility according to the Danish Financial Statements Act,
Section 99a.

17

