Statutory Report on Corporate Social
Responsibility
vestjyskBANK’s work involving corporate social responsibility focuses on three key areas:
our employees, our customers and the local communities with which we seek to become
an active part.
Over the course of several years, we have focused on responsibility as an integral part of
our business, our vision, mission and values.



Mission: Our steadfast and responsible approach to banking gives our customers
the financial freedom they need.



Vision: vestjyskBANK envisions itself as being the most attractive business partner
in the market. By this we mean: Through solid growth vestjyskBANK shall continue
to be among the top-earning financial institutions in Denmark. This will ensure the
greatest possible influence on our own development and independence. At
vestjyskBANK, customers shall be serviced by “full human beings” with a common
set of core values. Both customers and the Bank shall experience value creation,
which in turn will result in mutual loyalty. vestjyskBANK shall always be a
workplace guided by its values as well as being a workplace that attracts and
retains dedicated employees who possess the requisite professional expertise and
interpersonal dynamics.



Values: Steadfast, attentive, competent and dynamic. These are the values that
shape our everyday conduct. We wish to be near our customers, and we want to
show them that we are committed, attentive and engaged. By focusing on the
individual employee, we use value-based management as an active management
tool, and we expect that each employee will comply with and assume responsibility
for those values.

This means that our focus is very much on people and by extension the community and
the environment in which we live.
Customers
vestjyskBANK aims at providing expert and substantive advisory services. Based on the
individual customer’s financial situation and needs, we offer simple and clear products.
In terms of investing, we offer the asset management product vestjyskVÆRDIPLEJE as
well as vestjyskPENSIONSPULJE for pooled pension funds—products which contain only
securities easily understood by our customers. Other securities are offered to customers
only upon request.
vestjyskBANK is all about people; we always place our customers’ needs for advisory
services front and centre; and we primarily base our decisions on individual assessments
and long-term considerations.
Since our customers are the focal point of our business, it is important to vestjyskBANK
that they be given the opportunity to provide feedback to their advisor and submit
complaints via our website. Our relationships with our customers are characterised by
maintaining the highest ethical standard. This is reflected in the relatively low number of

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

cases brought before the Danish Complaint Board of Banking Services
(Pengeinstitutankenævnet), as itemised in the table below.
Cases brought before the Danish Complaint Board of Banking Services
Year

Total
number
of
decisions

Complaints
sustained

Complaints
sustained in
part

Complaints
sustained in
part during
proceedings
and otherwise in
favour of the
FI*

In
favour
of the
FI*

Denied

Number of
decisions
issued
involving
vestjyskBANK

Of which
against
vestjyskBANK

Of which
in favour
of
vestjyskBANK

Denied

2010

416

67

24

11

236

78

8

2

6

0

2011

545

84

40

14

312

95

3

1

2

3

* FI = Financial institution

At vestjyskBANK, we do not allow the remuneration of employees to influence the advice
we give customers—this is also the reason we do not issue bonuses to or maintain
incentive plans for our Management or employees.
Under the law, our employees are subject to a duty of confidentiality, which provides
added protection to our customers.
At the present time, vestjyskBANK has not taken a position on whether there are
objectives/sectors to which we do not wish to provide loans. We have also not taken a
position on whether to invest in securities based on accountability.
Employees
It is important for vestjyskBANK that our vision be implemented in our day-to-day work.
Our vision must be complied with not only in our employees’ contact with customers but
also among our employees themselves.
vestjyskBANK strives to maintain a healthy workplace. Our employees receive offers to
avoid occupational injuries, most significantly carpal tunnel syndrome. We have also
established the programme “Starting healthy habits,” which among other things consists
of health check-ups, exercise initiatives such as "Arbejdspladsen motionerer" and "Vi
cykler til arbejde", among other things.
Workplace assessments are carried out every 2½ years. vestjyskBANK has a wellfunctioning Occupational Environment and Works Committee and a local agreement whose
purpose is to strengthen and streamline collaboration relating to the work environment
and other areas of collaboration for the benefit of both vestjyskBANK and individual
employees.
A care policy has been implemented that aims at caring for employees in crisis situations,
such as serious illness, or in the event of divorce or death, abuse, smoking and sick leave.
Employees have private health insurance policies at favourable terms in Codan Care.
By providing flexitime the Bank pays regard to employee needs to a large extent, and a
fixed amount is set aside for each employee—an amount that can, among other things, be
used for healthy snacks in the workplace. vestjyskBANK has employees working flex jobs.
vestjyskBANK has a pensioners’ club where retirees can stay in touch with the Bank.

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

Community
vestjyskBANK prioritises involvement with the local community. Among other things, this
is evidenced in vestjyskBANK’s many sponsorships of sports, culture and charitable
causes. The sponsorships cover a wide array of organisations—from local athletic
associations to elite sports—and our employees and executives boost the donations by
performing volunteer work in the associations.
Environment
Internally, our eco-friendly efforts include pre-sorting waste, so that non-confidential
paper is sent for recycling, and lights are turned on and off by motion sensors in newlybuilt facilities and remodelled premises in order to reduce our power consumption. We
have also established facilities for videoconferencing so as to reduce transportation to and
from meetings etc. We anticipate that our use of videoconferencing will increase in the
coming years.
We aim to contribute to a cleaner environment and a more healthy way of living—but we
also rely on each individual's own initiative. We have therefore posted information about
energy and the environment on vestjyskBANK’s website.
vestjyskBANK has not issued any requirements to suppliers.
Adopted at the Supervisory Board Meeting on 27 January 2012

Vestjysk Bank A/S

▪ Torvet 4-5 ▪ DK-7620 Lemvig ▪Denmark▪ CVR 34631328 ▪ vestjyskbank.dk

