
Corporate social responsibility
Running our business responsibly and acting with respect for individual
employees and the societies of which we are a part has always been a high
priority for Ambu. Ambu is constantly working to strengthen the link between
responsible and value-creating corporate behaviour.

Ambu’s business is inextricably linked to social responsibility.
This is not due solely to the fact that Ambu’s vision is to
save lives and improve patient care. Working with corporate
social responsibility (CSR) also contributes to forging good
relations with customers and suppliers, increasing productivity
and reducing waste, mitigating non-financial risks and
strengthening the company’s identity and culture.
Ambu’s work with corporate social responsibility is based on
the principles of the UN’s Global Compact initiative and can
be divided into three overall focus areas which are particularly
relevant for Ambu’s efforts:
• People and community
• Environment and products
• Business ethics.

With reference to the three overall focus areas, a Corporate
Guideline has been prepared, setting out nine common
guidelines (see below) for Ambu’s CSR activities.
The general framework for Ambu’s CSR activities is contained
in its:
• Code of Conduct
• Code of Conduct for Ambu Suppliers
• Environmental policy.
This section on corporate social responsibility constitutes the
statutory account for Ambu’s work on CSR in FY 2011/12, cf.
Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act.
Read more at www.ambu.com/csr.

People and community
Guidelines
1. We work to promote diversity and non-discrimination in
employment.
2. We work for a safe and healthy work environment.
3. We prohibit the use of forced and child labour.
4. We support interaction with educational institutions.
Actions and results in 2011/12
• Ambu continuously works to improve safety in all processes
and registers work-related injuries and accidents and follows
up on them on a regular basis. In 2011/12, five injuries
were registered globally, of which one was serious, but not
critical. This represents a fall relative to the previous year,
which can, among other things, be ascribed to more training,
ongoing supervision and monthly safety inspections.

•

•

•

In the course of 2011/12, a number of initiatives have
been introduced to increase the health of the employees
in the Danish organisation – read more in the section
‘Organisation and employees’.
The prohibition on the use of forced and child labour is an
integrated part of Ambu’s Code of Conduct and also in the
code of conduct which must be signed by the company’s
suppliers.
Ambu wants to support the education of young people, and
consequently devotes continuous efforts to interacting with
educational institutions. A number of Ambu employees in
Malaysia teach courses under further education programmes
within their fields of expertise. Also, Ambu collaborates with
students who are writing theses or projects and accepts
interns. Among other things, two Danish engineering
students have been on internships in China and Malaysia,
respectively.

Page 27



Surroundings and products
Guidelines
5. We focus on reducing Ambu’s environmental impact in our
work on innovation and in the production and distribution
of our products.
6. We use materials efficiently, and strive to optimise
packaging and waste handling.
7. We work to reduce energy consumption.
Actions and results in 2011/12
• Ambu’s environmental policy was updated in 2011/12. The
update looked at specific requirements for the company’s
value chains.
• Springing from a demand among customers for phthalatefree products, a process is under way to identify and use
phthalate-free materials in both existing and newly
developed products. In recent years, phthalate-free
versions of selected products have been developed. These

•

•

will be launched in the new financial year. Moreover,
efforts are constantly being made to reduce the
environmental impact of new products, among other
things by considering the choice of materials and their
disposal in the initial stages of the development process.
The use of videoconferencing equipment has been
increased to reduce environmental impacts in connection
with travelling. Moreover, a new travel policy has been
introduced, and a travel management system has been
implemented in Denmark. The plan is to roll out the system
in the USA and Malaysia in 2012/13. This will contribute to
reducing Ambu’s overall environmental impact.
Efforts are continuously being made to reduce waste in
Ambu’s production processes, and in 2011/12 the
introduction of robots, among other things, has created
better opportunities for recycling and recirculating waste
from production.

Business ethics
Guidelines
8. We are committed to abide by the laws and regulations of
the countries in which we operate. In the absence of
adequate laws and regulations, we refer to recognised
international standards and industry norms.
9. We do not accept bribery or other kinds of corruption.

•

have signed the Code of Conduct, and follow-up action has
been taken in relation to those who have not yet signed it.
All strategic suppliers are visited prior to starting up
collaboration. Emphasis is placed, among other things, on
the supplier’s handling of the environment, human rights
and business ethics, and all suppliers must sign the Code
of Conduct for Ambu Suppliers.
Ambu established a whistle-blower hotline in 2011/12, so
that employees can report suspected or actual violations
of legislation, Ambu’s Code of Conduct, internal rules or
other significant irregularities. The hotline is monitored by
the audit committee to safeguard confidentiality and
impartial reporting.

Actions and results in 2011/12
• Ambu’s Code of Conduct was updated in 2011/12.
• A common Code of Conduct has been established for
Ambu’s existing suppliers, which was distributed to all
suppliers in 2010/11. In 2011/12, virtually all suppliers

•

Organisation of CSR work
A CSR unit has been set up to work with corporate social
responsibility in Ambu comprising employees from Sales and
Marketing, HR, R&D and two Executive Vice Presidents. The
CSR unit is responsible for ensuring that Ambu is at the
forefront of developments in the CSR area. The CSR unit
meets every quarter and on an ad-hoc basis as and when
required.

Initiatives in 2012/13
In the new financial year, focus will be on the following initiatives, among others:
• Continued efforts to increase the number of phthalatefree products.
• Further efforts to implement and bring about a change in
behaviour in relation to Ambu’s anti-corruption policy.
• Work on employee commitment; in 2012/13, a global
employee satisfaction survey will be conducted, which will
form the basis for subsequent activities.
• Efforts will be made globally to increase the number of
students and interns from institutions of higher education.

The CSR work is becoming ever more structured and broadly
rooted in the global organisation.

Page 28

