Corporate Social
Responsibility
The Group has 550 employees in four countries and

The BankNordik Group is mainly focused on the fol-

a variety of financial services and loan engagements,

lowing key areas in its CSR activities: support of local

the BankNordik Group plays an important role to

and regional community activities and employee care.

many stakeholders. Management fully acknowledges
the accompanying responsibility and is committed to
constantly conducting the Group’s business activities
taking into account the corporate social responsibility

Support of local community
activities

it has towards customers, employees, investors, busi-

Active local and regional partnerships

ness partners and the local and regional communities

The Group focuses on being an active partner in lo-

it operates in. The Group places great emphasis on its

cal and regional associations, upcoming businesses,

CSR initiatives having a real effect on the stakeholders

sporting and cultural life in communities in which the

they are directed at.

Group’s branches and activities are situated.

CSR policy

BankNordik has been strongly anchored in the Faroese

The Group’s CSR initiatives are formalised in a Cor-

tory, and it is therefore a natural part of the Group’s

porate Social Responsibility policy. The management

business to support local development and establish

believes that the Group’s CSR initiatives will yield the

mutually active partnerships in the Faroe Islands.

best results if there is a natural connection between

With the expansion of the Bank’s operations in the

such activities and the Group’s business strategy and

Nordic region, BankNordik has become even more fo-

core competences. Therefore, the BankNordik Group’s

cused on supporting local and regional events in the

CSR activities and initiatives are strategically rooted

communities in which the Bank operates. Therefore,

in the Group’s vision, business strategy and core com-

the Group is committed to further expanding this con-

petencies.

cept of support and building of partnerships in the

community throughout its more than 100-year his-

local communities of its new markets in Denmark,

Communication

Greenland and Iceland.

In order to optimise value creation from the Group’s

Sports and cultural activities

CSR initiatives, effective and targeted communication

During the past year, BankNordik has sponsored com-

of these initiatives to the relevant stakeholders is es-

munity initiatives through a range of sports and cul-

sential. Effective communication of these initiatives,

tural activities. In recognition of the vital role sports

both internally and externally, contributes positively

clubs play for community cohesion, BankNordik sup-

to the Group’s image and has a positive impact on

ports a wide range of local sports initiatives. In de-

retaining the existing customer base as well as on at-

termining which areas to support, BankNordik priori-

tracting new customers

tises supporting sports clubs with a broad appeal and

Page 40

The Group focuses on being an active partner in local and regional associations, upcoming businesses,
sporting and cultural life in communities in which
the Group’s branches and activities are situated

a membership base ranging from young children to

core values. Initiatives are monitored and measured

senior citizens.

on a regular basis in order to provide management
with information on how employees thrive. The sur-

Business entrepreneurship

vey is also used to plan corrective measures should

In order to encourage entrepreneurship in its early

the overall response not match the desired results.

stages, a three-year sponsorship contract was signed

The survey was successfully carried out in 2011. In

with the Faroese Entrepreneurship House in 2010.

2012, however, it was not possible to conduct the

This organisation offers free guidance, expert advice

survey due to the extensive resources being used in

and support to entrepreneurs who have an ambition

the integration of Amagerbanken activities, including

to grow or expand internationally. BankNordik is keen

building a new organisation, rebranding and convert-

to support various initiatives aimed at improving

ing to a shared IT system.

business conditions and business skills within a range
of industries. Such initiatives also include supporting

As part of the efforts to further promote employee

conferences and seminars.

satisfaction, the Bank arranges employee days, where
the agenda typically covers activities of both a profes-

Employee care

sional and a social nature.

BankNordik’s core values play a significant role in its
HR strategy and they are applied by the Group on a
day-to-day basis when recruiting, developing, retaining or phasing out employees.
It is very important that the working environment is
aligned with individual employee needs in terms of
general safety, spacing, lighting, level of noise, ergonomic considerations and that it complies with corresponding regulations. In addition, the Group aims to
continuously maintain a high level of job satisfaction
among its employees. This is considered to be a requirement for retaining a proactive and engaged staff
committed to maintaining existing as well as establishing new positive customer relations.
The Group has an objective to conduct an employee
satisfaction survey each year based on the Group’s

Management’s report

Page 41

