csr-report
CSR-REPORT
2012

contents

Key figures
3
Bavarian Nordic – in brief
3
Bavarian Nordic and CSR
4
Policies6
Products7
Environment and climate
8
Employees9
Suppliers11
Business ethics
12
Independent auditor's review report
13
Key figures
14
CSR elements
19
GRI indicators
20
Reporting principles
22

CSR-report 2012 	 3

		

Key figures

				

2012	

2011	

2010	

2009

3,662	3,813	3,787	 2,705
Carbon footprint, global, tC02			
2,319	2,565	2,587	 2,223
Carbon footprint, production, tCO2 1			
Carbon footprint, index per dose produced			
35	 48	153	 100
Absence rate			
4.3%	3.7%	4.6%	 4.6%
Accidents, number per million working hours			
5.1	4.0	 7.6	 15.3
Number of employees			
461	452	412	 360

Key figures – financials
DKK million			

2012	

2011	

2010	

2009

Revenue			1,016.6	 523.6	 314.1	 74.8
Profit before tax			
(48.7)	
(296.4)	
(483.4)	
(331.1)

Bavarian Nordic – in brief

Bavarian Nordic develops and
manufactures innovative vaccines for the prevention and
treatment of life-threatening
diseases where there are
as yet unmet needs. The
Company's clinical pipeline focuses on cancer and infectious
diseases.

1

Our two leading projects are PROSTVAC®, a
therapeutic prostate cancer vaccine candidate in clinical Phase 3 development, and
IMVAMUNE®, a non-replicating smallpox
vaccine being developed and supplied
under contract with the US government.

The Company is listed on the NASDAQ
OMX Copenhagen exchange and has
roughly 21 thousand shareholders. For
more information on the Company and its
ownership structure, please see our 2011
annual report or the Company's website:
www.bavarian-nordic.com.

The Company has built a manufacturing
facility at Kvistgaard in Denmark solely
for the production and quality control of
the smallpox vaccine supplied to the US
National Strategic Stockpile.

Total emissions from the Kvistgaard facility, comprising production and associated functions, and administration.

	4	CSR-report 2012

Bavarian Nordic and CSR

In just a few years, Bavarian Nordic has
grown from a pure research company
into a fully integrated company with an
in-house production of vaccines. This
transformation, combined with a high
rate of organic growth, has required a
great deal of systematic and thorough
work adapting the organization to its new
tasks as a production company while also
taking the world around us into account
in order ensure to that our operations are
responsible from both a financial and a
social perspective.

In extension of our annual environmental
report, which we began publishing in
2005 when we started up production at
our production facility, we began working
systematically with several aspects of
CSR 2 in 2009, initially concentrating on
our key stakeholders: our employees and
suppliers.
The environment, our employees and
our suppliers continue to constitute the
core of our CSR activities, but we also
include other areas of significance to our

business. In our report, we have defined
an additional two areas of focus: business
ethics and products. As a result, we now
have five focus areas, all wholly or partly
related to the three main elements of
our CSR work: people (social relationships), planet (the environment) and profit
(finances), as shown in the figure below.
The figure below also shows how our
policies and other specific initiatives cover
the three main elements; this is explained in greater detail in the section “CSR
elements” of the report.

Bavarian Nordic's CSR model

Employees

Products

People
•	 Health and safety
policy

•	 Code of Ethics
and Business
Conduct
•	 General
CSR policy

Business
ethics

Profit

Planet
•	 Environmental
policy

Suppliers
2

CSR: Corporate social responsibitlity

Environment

		

In addition to a general CSR policy, we
have policies within the areas we believe
are essential to our work. These policies
are a natural extension of the various objectives we work towards as a company,
and their purpose is to create commercial
value for the Company. We do not as yet
have an actual suppliers policy, but we
have instead incorporated these elements
into our general CSR policy.
We also have a number of other elements
to support the Company's CSR work. A
general overview over the most important of these elements appears below, at
the end of this report in the section “CSR
elements”.
About the report
This CSR report was prepared in accordance with Danish Financial Statements Act
requirements with respect to CSR reporting. The report covers the financial year
1 January to 31 December 2012 and forms
part of the management's review in the
annual report as signed and approved
by the Board of Directors and Corporate
Management on 12 March 2013.

Reporting principles
This CSR report was prepared with
inspiration from the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI), a recognized framework
for sustainability reporting. The GRI
structure includes principles and indicators we use to measure and explain
the Company’s financial, environmental
and social performance. We selected
the areas to be reported on based on a
principle of materiality: we endeavored
to include the most important ways in
which the Company has an either direct
or indirect impact upon the world around
it. Our manufacturing facilities are one
of the chief sources of our impact on the
environment, and we seek to provide a
high degree of transparency through our
carbon footprint and reported environmental data.
The scope of the report
In our CSR report, we focus on our largest
facilities: i.e. Kvistgaard (industrial production, quality control laboratories, technical
services department and administration),
Martinsried (research and development),
Berlin (production of clinical trial materials) and Mountain View, California (re-

CSR-report 2012 	 5

search and development). Taken together,
these facilities employ more than 99%
of the Group's staff and are responsible
for most by far of the energy and raw
materials consumed. The other facilities
– in Washington, DC, and Singapore – are
office facilities only and thus of minor
importance in this respect.
As part of the optimization of our production competencies, we are closing our
Berlin facility in 2013 and transferring its
activities to Kvistgaard, so data for Berlin
will not be included in the report going
forward.
The scope of this report has not been expanded from the 2011 report, in which we
included additional data on our employees and considerably more environmental
data that was previously included in our
green accounts.
This year, the report includes more
comparative figures from 2009, when we
started our CSR activities, and to date in
order to give a more complete, true and
fair view of how we have changed and
developed in recent years.

	6	CSR-report 2012

Policies

Bavarian Nordic develops and
manufactures vaccines for
the prevention and treatment
of life-threatening diseases
where there are as yet unmet
needs. In doing so, we seek to
create a continuing business
that will ensure the Company’s
growth and investment in
research and development and
thus continue to contribute to
a healthier and safer society.
At the same time, we focus on working
and acting responsibly with respect to the
world we live in. We aim to do this by

Environmental and climate policy
At Bavarian Nordic, we design our vaccine
production facilities and procedures so that
there is no risk of viruses escaping into the
indoor or outdoor environment through
the air, our waste or our wastewater. We at
Bavarian Nordic work continually to improve
our environmental and climate performance.
Our aims are
•	 to encourage environmentally aware
behavior and prevent contamination
and pollution throughout the Company
•	 to reduce our environmental and climate impact by
•	 developing and using processes that
have a minimum of environmental
impact

Health and safety policy
A safe and healthy working environment
is vital to employee safety and satisfaction at the workplace. We always comply
with applicable rules and regulations in
this field and focus on systematically
mapping both the physical and mental
working environment so that the necessary preventive steps can be taken, for the
benefit of individual employees as well as
the Company as a whole.
The aims of our general health and safety
policy are
•	 to promote awareness of health- and
safety-related behavior in all employees
as part of their day-to-day work and to
produce proactive solutions to potential
problems

•	 manufacturing high-quality vaccines
•	 working actively to minimize our impact
on the environment and climate

•	 optimizing our utilization of materials
and energy
•	 reducing emissions and waste

•	 maintaining an active dialog with our
stakeholders – on a local, national and
global level
•	 actively supporting and respecting
human rights and labor standards
•	 providing a safe and healthy working
environment for our staff that includes
opportunities for professional and personal development.
•	 communicating our CSR policy to external collaboration partners, including our
suppliers.

•	 to comply with environmental protection
regulations and relevant requirements
•	 to gradually build an environmental
management system based on the
principles in the ISO 14001 standard.

•	 to gradually develop a management
system to facilitate this proactive safety
work.

		

CSR-report 2012 	 7

Products

Bavarian Nordic helps make
the world healthier, safer
and more secure through our
development and production
of innovative vaccines for the
prevention and treatment of
life-threatening diseases. Research into and development
of new vaccines requires substantial investment, so before
we can do this , we must have
a lasting and profitable business.

Through contracts with the US government, we have successfully developed a
new smallpox vaccine that we manufacture and supply to the US National Strategic
Stockpile, and this has laid the necessary
foundation for the further development
of our business and of new products to
benefit patients in the future.

built into our systems and our entire
corporate culture.

IMVAMUNE® smallpox vaccine
Our most advanced infectious disease
project is the IMVAMUNE® smallpox vaccine, which is already being manufactured
at our Kvistgaard facility. The vaccine is
not yet fully developed, but its favorable
safety profile has led to certain governments prioritizing a stockpile of the
vaccine for potential use in persons who
do not tolerate the traditional smallpox
vaccines well. Our primary customer is the
US government, which ordered 20 million
doses in 2007 for delivery in 2010-2013.
Afterwards, we expect to receive new
orders regularly from the US government.

PROSTVAC® belongs to a new class of
treatment: immunotherapy, where the
idea is to train the patient's own immune
system to fight cancer. The treatment
is administered as a vaccine (seven
injections over five months) and is not
associated with the serious side effects
otherwise seen with conventional cancer
therapy. In an earlier large-scale Phase
2 clinical study, the vaccine demonstrated an increased median survival of
8.5 months for patients with advanced
prostate cancer. These results are among
the best ever demonstrated in this patient
group, and they have led to the start-up
of a Phase 3 clinical study.

The IMVAMUNE® vaccine is based on a
live attenuated virus, so it cannot be
heat sterilized, as that would destroy the
active ingredient of the vaccine. For this
reason, a scrupulous quality control and
cleanliness assurance has been built into
the entire process. The pharmaceutical
industry works according to GMP . GMP
includes strict requirements with respect
to a product’s traceability, strength, quality and purity, which means that quality
management is built into each step of
the manufacturing process. GMP 3 rules
are laid down by the Danish, European
and American health authorities; Bavarian
Nordic supplies these markets and thus
complies with these quality requirements.
Product safety is crucial in our business,
and quality and responsibility have been

3

Good Manufacturing Practice.

PROSTVAC® – prostate cancer immunotherapy
Our leading project in cancer is PROSTVAC®, which is in final Phase 3 development.

The Phase 3 clinical study will be conducted globally and include a total of 1,200
patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.
We intend to apply for a marketing authorization for PROSTVAC® once positive data
from the study are available. We have
already begun preliminary activities with
a view to market launch, including preparations for manufacturing the vaccine at
our Kvistgaard facility.
An approved vaccine for treating prostate cancer is expected to considerably
improve therapeutic options for patients
with late-stage prostate cancer.

	8	CSR-report 2012

Environment and climate

Most of Bavarian Nordic's
impact on the environment
and climate comes from our
production, so we pay particular attention to improving efficiency and our manufacturing
processes in order to optimize
our use of natural resources.

When we built our factory in the Danish
town of Kvistgaard in 2005, we had
a great deal of focus on the factory's
environmental impact. Since then, we
have continually worked to minimize our
environmental impact, and we continue
to work actively with environmental, health and safety planning in new building
projects as well. In connection with recent
years' expansion of the facility and its
production, we have also paid particular
attention to our impact on the community
and make an effort to remain in communication with our neighbors, especially
with respect to noise, which is what affects them most directly.
In 2012, we exceeded the noise limits
on a single reference point in connection with the installation of new cooling
containers. However, we received no
complaints from our neighbors or others,
so, as permitted by Danish law, we have
applied for these restrictions to be eased.
A wastewater test measurement in
December 2012 showed that it exceeded
permitted pH and chloride content levels.
An investigation has been initiated to
identify the cause of this.
The environmental protection authorities have categorized Bavarian Nordic

as a Level 1 company, i.e. they deem
the Company to be at the forefront of
environmental work within the categories
of law-abiding conduct, systematization
and information. Bavarian Nordic was
categorized at this level in 2007 and
most recently again in 2012 following an
environmental inspection. The Company
intends to remain at this level.
In 2012, we further reduced our relative
climate impact due to a far more efficient
utilization of our production facilities:
although production has doubled, there
has been no substantial increase in our
use of water and energy. We will continue
to focus on opportunities to reduce our
relative climate impact.
In late 2012, we installed a new energy
monitoring system at our facility at Kvistgaard to collect data and track our use of
energy and water. The new system allows
us to identify inappropriate consumption
and thus make improvements.
Moreover, we will be conducting an
energy screening of our entire Kvistgaard
facility to find out how and where we
can optimize our energy consumption.
We expect to select an external service
provider to conduct the screening in the
first half of 2013.

CSR-report 2012 	 9

		

Employees

Bavarian Nordic has in recent
years moved from being a
purely research-based business
to also encompassing in-house
production and quality control.

These are areas in which many different staff groups work together, and the
rapid growth we have seen has made
it essential for us to establish a shared
identity and culture for the Company and
its employees.
After a process involving employees from
all levels and areas of the organization,
we defined a set of corporate values in
2011 that describe who we are and how
we work at Bavarian Nordic.
In 2012, we worked actively to implement
these values throughout the organization.
Some of the work was at a general level
– communicating the values and making
them visible in the organization – and some
was more concrete with employees working to implement the values at the local
and department level. These values have
also become an integral part of the annual

employee performance interviews, and we
have started up a management development course also based on the values.
We also established an HR Forum in
2012, with representatives from the HR
functions of both of our divisions. Its purpose is to ensure overall coordination of
management initiatives and to establish a
best practice for the area.
Personal and
organizational development
We are an innovative, knowledge-based
company, and it is important for us to attract and retain highly qualified workers.
Also for this reason, we want to offer
our staff a good working environment
that provides them with development
opportunities as well. There are good
opportunities at Bavarian Nordic, both for
development within a field of work by rotation between production, laboratory and
office jobs or for development vertically
within the management hierarchy. As a
result, we are happy to recruit internally,
and we focus on staff development
potential in our annual employee performance reviews.

It is crucial that our employees have
the necessary tools and techniques to
perform well in their jobs now and in
future. Our goal is, as a minimum, for
our workers and managers to always
have the skills to look for and find their
own job. For this reason, we focus on
continuing training and education and
on upgrading qualifications, also those
of the many employees who work in the
GMP areas. Furthermore, we allocated
additional funds for training in 2012, and
more employees took external courses. A
few have begun taking classes in training
or educational programs while continuing
to work at Bavarian Nordic.
In 2012, we also began offering a management development course for all employees with management responsibility.
Employee health and job satisfaction
At Bavarian Nordic, we strive towards a
good, healthy work-life balance, and at
work we focus on employee health and
job satisfaction. All staff at Kvistgaard are
included in our corporate health insurance
plan, which ensures fast and professional
help and treatment at private hospitals
and from psychologists, chiropractors, physical therapists, etc., should the need arise.

Our values
Excellence

Agility

Dedication

•	 We show ambition and openness to
novel approaches

•	 We adapt with speed and flexibility to
business challenges and opportunities

•	 We show commitment and motivation
to the development of the business

•	 We are goal oriented and deliver on
our promises

• We are accountable and willing to
make decisions

•	 We show initiative and persistence in
what we do

•	 We show determination to succeed
and perform above expectations and
market standards

•	 We are enthusiastic in how we work
and show a deep felt interest in what
we are here for

	10	CSR-report 2012

We work actively to counteract stress. We
have a focus on stress indicators in daily
work life and offer help in handling stress
as needed.
In 2012, we established a work group
which is to prepare a catalogue of suggestions for improving employee well-being
at work and job satisfaction. We have
taken up some of the suggestions and
begun implementing all or parts of them.
The work group is a supplement to procedures already established in the organization such as works council meetings at
which both labor and management are
represented and regularly discuss issues
that can have an impact on employee job
satisfaction and employment conditions.
A good, safe working environment
The Company’s occupational health and
safety work at our different sites varies to
comply with different countries’ regulatory
requirements. At Kvistgaard, workplace
assessments are used regularly to chart
health and safety factors, and relevant
improvement initiatives based on these
assessments are put forward, prioritized
and translated into an action plan. In compliance with Danish regulations, a number
of health and safety groups plus one
health and safety committee have been
appointed that have both management
and worker representatives. Regular committee meetings are held over the course
of the year at which members follow up
on action plans in order to improve working conditions and safety.
Although there was a marginal increase
in the accident rate in 2012, the rate has
been falling in recent years and is still
considerably lower than the average accident rate at Danish companies .
Not a single work-related accident was
reported at Kvistgaard in 2012, and that is
where most of the Company's employees
work. In order to counter the risk of ac-

cidents, we have in recent years focused
especially on the induction and training
of new staff, especially in production
facilities and laboratories with many new
employees. This has helped reduce the
number of accidents.
Absence
We have been working actively for several
years on dialog-based sickness absence
management, ahead of legislative trends.
We generally achieve a quicker return to
work by handling each case individually,
also including an option to return to work
part-time or be assigned other tasks at first.
After pilot testing in the spring of 2012,
we introduced electronic systems for
tracking absence at our Kvistgaard facility
in the second half of 2012. Our absence
tracking system was not automated
before, so it was a time-consuming task
both for employees and the administrative staff handling payroll- and personnelrelated functions. With the new systems
in place, we expect to reduce administrative work in tracking and following up
on absence while also achieving greater
accuracy of records.

Our culture
At Bavarian Nordic, we offer a challenging
international working environment in which
job satisfaction and personal development
have a high priority. We are committed to
making it a great place to work by empowering our employees to perform their
tasks to their own satisfaction, while aiming
for the success of the company
We encourage innovative thinking that
promotes beneficial change for both the
individual and the company
We believe that flexibility and a willingness
to adapt are key characteristics for success as a company and as employees
We respect different personalities and
cultures and believe that the diversity of our
employees creates value for the company.
We strive for an integrated business culture
driven by teamwork and mutual respect,
while at the same time recognizing the
individual effort
We expect our employees to be accountable
in all aspects of their working life.

Work-related accidents

Sickness absence

Frequence

Absence rates

30

6

25

5

20

4

15

3

10

2

5

1

0

0

2009

2010

2011

2012

  Bavarian Nordic  
  All companies
Number of accidents per million working hours
compared with DI (Confederation of Danish
Industry) statistics for work-related accidents (all
occupational groups).

2009

2010

2011

2012

  Bavarian Nordic  
  All companies
Absence rate compared with DI (Confederation of
Danish Industry) statistics for sickness absence (all
companies).

		

CSR-report 2012 	 11

Suppliers

As an integral part of Bavarian
Nordic's CSR policy, we wish
to maintain an active dialog
with our suppliers about social
responsibility and environmental initiatives

In 2010, we mapped out the geographical
locations of our raw materials suppliers
and found that they are mainly located
in North America and the EU, in countries that already have a high level of
regulation of social and environmental
parameters.
New potential suppliers will also be evaluated with respect to their geographical
location and thus the risk they represent,
and an assessment will be made as to
whether any action is necessary.
A large number of our suppliers communicate openly and honestly about their CSR
work, just as we, in our interaction with
them, inform them of our CSR policies and
activities.
More specifically, we decided to implement social and environmental conditions
as part of the purchasing process in 2012
by including in our contracts information
on the Company's business ethics and our
expectations that our suppliers comply
with basic ethical, social and environmental guidelines. A potential effect of
this new initiative is yet to be recorded.
However, the Company hopes that it

will contribute to an increased positive
dialogue with its suppliers as well as
transparency on social and environmental
issues.
In accordance with Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP) and our own supplier
management system currently in place,
all our new raw materials suppliers are
subject to audit. Following the initial
audit, suppliers are evaluated every third
year as a minimum, either by way of a
visit or a questionnaire, depending on the
situation.
The audits do not include CSR-related
issues, but they provide a very good opportunity to talk with the suppliers about
their attitudes and practices in the area
and also to comment on any problematic
issues. In 2012, we performed 22 audits,
and none of them caused us to comment
on or point to any such issues. We have
implemented social and environmental conditions as part of the purchasing
process by including in our contracts
information on the Company's business
ethics and our expectations that our suppliers comply with basic ethical, social
and environmental guidelines.

	12	CSR-report 2012

Business ethics

Bavarian Nordic prioritizes
business ethics as a natural
part of its underlying business
concept. We want to be seen
as credible and reliable in the
eyes of our collaboration partners and the rest of the world
around us.

We have developed a Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct that must be observed
by everyone in the Company. Management is obliged to take violations of the
code seriously.
The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
contains rules within a large number of
areas, including:
•	 Compliance with laws and regulations
•	 Conflicts of interest
•	 Gifts, free services and entertainment
•	 Corrupt practices
The Code also includes the rules and regulations in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(FCPA) and the Truth in Negotiations Act
(TINA) that are relevant in connection with
the Company's business transactions and
negotiations in the USA.
The Company otherwise commits itself to
cooperating in connection with investiga-

tions organized by authorized individuals
working on behalf of authorities with
legitimate rights.
Ethical hotline to be introduced in 2013
Management has decided to introduce
an ethical hotline to give employees the
opportunity to report possible violations
of the Code. A special work group under
management worked in 2012 to investigate the practical aspects of setting up
such a hotline, which will be established
in collaboration with a third-party service
provider, partly to protect the employees who raise concerns, and partly to
ensure that the necessary investigations
are conducted when a concern has been
raised, and that corrective action is taken
if necessary.
As the ethical hotline may involve
reporting of personally sensitive data,
it must be pre-approved by the Danish
Data Protection Agency. We have filed an
application with the Agency and expect
to put the ethical hotline into operation
sometime in the first half of 2013.

		

CSR-report 2012 	 13

Independent auditor’s report on
key performance indicators
To the Executive Board of Bavarian Nordic A/S
We have reviewed the key performance
indicators for 2012 in table 1 to 7 as
disclosed in Bavarian Nordic A/S’ 2012
CSR report for the purpose of issuing an
auditor’s report in this respect.

Danish audit regulation to obtain limited
assurance about our conclusion. We have
obtained limited assurance because, compared to a reasonable assurance engagement, our work has been limited primarily
to inquiries of company personnel and
analytical procedures.

The Company’s Management is responsible for the CSR report. Our responsibility is
to express a conclusion on the review of
the key performance indicators in the CSR
report based on our review.

The purpose has been to obtain limited
assurance that the data presented in
the CSR report are in accordance with
the reporting practice described and the
information reported by the reporting
units included.

Scope of work
We conducted our work in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing
governing Other Assurance Engagements
and additional requirements under

Our work is based on an assessment of
risk of material misstatements. The work
consists primarily of inquiries of company
personnel and of applying analytical
procedures.

Copenhagen, 12 March 2013

Deloitte
Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab

Carsten Vaarby
State Authorised Public Accountant

We believe that the work conducted
provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
Conclusion
Based on our work, nothing has come to
our attention that causes us to believe
that the key performance indicators in table 1 to 7 in the CSR report for 2012 is not
in accordance with the reporting practice
described and the information reported by
the production sites.

	14	CSR-report 2012

Key figures

The key figures in Table 1 (carbon footprint) and Table 2 (employees) relate to our overall global activities to the greatest possible
extent, whereas the key figures in Tables 3-7 only cover environmental conditions relating to our manufacturing facility in Kvistgaard,
Denmark, which must be reported and published under Danish environmental legislation and the EU PRTR regulation 5.

GLOBAL
1. Carbon footprint
Our total CO2 emissions were down by 4% in spite of increased production at Kvistgaard and increased activities in our cancer vaccine
division in connection with the start-up of the PROSTVAC® Phase 3 study, which included, among other things, an expansion of our
Mountain View facility and an increase in headcount.
At Kvistgaard, CO2 emissions were down by almost 10% year on year in spite of a substantial increase in the number of vaccine doses
produced. Total production output has almost doubled as a result of a continuing focus on process efficiencies and utilization of resources. Combined with a reduction in energy consumption, this led to an improvement in relative emissions per dose produced, which
were down by 27% on 2011 and 65% on 2010.
Kvistgaard, where our industrial production and a large share of our laboratory activities take place, is also the facility that contributes
most to our total carbon footprint. The largest source of CO2 emissions is the use of electrical power, followed by the use of natural gas
for heating. The power is used to run ventilation systems, a refrigeration compressor, process equipment, refrigerators, freezers, air
compressors, office equipment and lighting; the natural gas is used for heating and steam production.

Table 1		Unit	
Carbon footprint, global		
t CO2	
Direct emissions (Scope 1)	
		
Heating	
	
t CO2	
Power generation		
t CO2	
Fugitive emissions		
t CO2	
Transport of employees (motor vehicles)		
t CO2	
Transport of raw materials (internal)		
t CO2	
Indirect emissions (Scope 2)	
		
Electrical power, purchased		
t CO2	
Heating, purchased	
	
t CO2	
Cooling, purchased		
t CO2	
Carbon footprint, Kvistgaard		
t CO2	
Carbon footprint, Kvistgaard, Index per dose produced**		

2012	

2011	

2010	

3,662	3,813*	 3,787	 2,705
	
	
1,367	1,225	1,356	 956
6	3	3	1
14	8	4	6
83	79*	 72	 68
1	 1	0	0
	
	
1,939	 2,110	2,010	1,494
252	388*	 342	 180
-	
-	
-	
2,319	2,565	2,587	2,223
35	 48	 153	100

* The comparative figure for 2011 has been restated as a result of mistakes in earlier statements.
** In recent years, Bavarian Nordic has focused on production optimization, which has resulted in substantial improvements in the use of resources and energy per dose produced. For this reason, we elected to present our climate impact as
an index figure reflecting the relative energy consumption per dose produced.
5

2009

PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register: http://europa.eu/legislation_summaries/environment/general_provisions/l28149_en.htm

CSR-report 2012 	 15

		

2. Employees
Headcount rose by 4% in 2012. The increase was mainly attributable to the Phase 3 PROSTVAC® study, which has led to hirings in the
cancer division, primarily in the R&D Department at Mountain View.
There was a minor reduction in production staff at Kvistgaard in 2012 as a result of resource and process optimization over a longer
period of time, which has helped increase profitability.
As part of this optimization process, the Kvistgaard facility will take over the activities previously handled in Berlin, and the Berlin
facility will be closed sometime in 2013, which will result in a minor headcount reduction.
The absence rate rose in 2012 but was below 2009 and 2010 levels. The absence rate includes employees at Kvistgaard, Martinsried
and Berlin. The absence rate for Kvistgaard was 3.5%, while the combined rate for Martinsried and Berlin was 5.7%. About 80% of the
absence at Martinsried and Berlin was due to long-term sick leaves.
The rate of employee turnover dropped marginally in 2012 in spite of the production staff cuts resulting from the production improvements implemented over the year.
In 2012, There were only four minor work-related accidents involving sickness absence (more than one day), so our accident rate
remains low. In the four years reported, our accident rate has been substantially below the rate of other companies. We will continue
to strive to maintain this low rate.

Table 2		Unit	

2012	

2011	

2010	

2009

Employees, total (year-end)		Number	
461	452	 412	360
Employees, total (converted to full-time
equivalents, average over the year)		Number	
448	429	 377	 337
Distribution:					
Kvistgaard		Number	
246	245	206	 176
Martinsried and Berlin		
Number	
138	 131	128	126
Mountain View		
Number	
60	49	37	28
Washington, DC		
Number	
3	3	4	4
Singapore		Number	
1	1	2	2
Absence		%	4.3	3.7	4.6	4.6
Employee turnover		%	
13.7	14.1		
	
		
	
	
Employee groups	
		
	
	
Under collective agreement		
Number	
57	71		
Other employees (white-collar workers with or
without management responsibility, executives)		
Number	
404	381	 -	
	
		
	
	
Accidents, total		Number	
4	3	5	9
Kvistgaard		Number	
0	3	4	8
Martinsried and Berlin		
Number	
4	0	1	1
Mountain View		
Number	
0	0	0	0
Washington, DC		
Number	
0	0	0	0
Singapore		Number	
0	0	0	0
Accident rate		
-	
5.1	 4.0	 7.6	15.2

	16	CSR-report 2012

DENMARK
3. Raw materials and ancillary materials
Chicken eggs are used as a raw material in production and inoculated with MVA-BN® to produce the active ingredient of the vaccine. Ready-mixed media (nutrients) are used to culture the biological agents, and ready-made saline solutions to purify the active
ingredient. Disinfectants are used, along with acids and bases to clean systems and equipment and to adjust the pH of the wastewater before discharging it into the municipal sewer system. Disinfectants are also used to disinfect the eggs before further processing.
Glycol is used in the cooling/refrigeration systems, along with small amounts of corrosion inhibitors for the production of steam and
CFC coolants for refilling.
For most parameters, raw materials consumption was below the 2011 level, which was due to fewer batches being produced in 2012
than in 2011. We have optimized our production processes significantly in recent years, and one of the effects has been a significant
increase in raw materials per batch, which explains the increase in consumption of eggs.

Table 3		Unit	

2012	

2011	

2010 	

2009

Eggs		Pcs.	
916,650	790,090	285,948	266,496
Various ready-mix media, etc.		
Liters	
144,380	184,560	100,643	 85,371
Acids/bases		Liters	10,142	
10,962	
5,065	
4,333
Salt (NaCl)		
Metric tons	
9	
9	
9	
6
Cleaning agents, disinfectants		
Liters	
25,401	
27,830	
9,112	
4,454
Plastic bags		
Pcs.	
13,177	
15,314	
6,675	
8,288
Cooling agents, propylene glycol, etc.		
Liters	
300	
610	
500	
1,208
4,917	
3,116	
2,385	
3,357
CO2		m3	
773	
777	
649	
899
N2		Nm3	
Propane		kg	
264	
385	
605	
374
Agar plates		
Pcs.	
99,880	
128,165	
97,980	
78,210
Media for process simulation		
Liters	
11,164	
8,717	
6,636	
4,922

CSR-report 2012 	 17

		

4. Water and wastewater
Table 4.1		Unit	
Water		m3	

2012	

2011	

2010	

2009

12,389	12,606*	 16,029	 10,412

* The comparative figure for 2011 has been restated as a result of missing data related to a water meter, that was not originally included in the statement.

Process wastewater is heat-inactivated, cooled and pH adjusted before being discharged into the public sewer system. Inactivation
is a procedure that ensures that all virus remnants are rendered 100% harmless, and the system is checked for operational problems
before discharge. This treatment ensures that the discharged wastewater complies with the requirements in the Company's permit to
use the municipal sewer system, which was issued in October 2004.

Table 4.2 		Unit	

2012	

2011	

2010	

2009

6,829	
Process wastewater		
m3	
Phosphorus		kg	22	
Nitrogen		kg	191	
Total organic carbon (TOC)		
kg	
481	
Chlorides		kg	
4,234	

6,917	
20	
161	
530	
2,628	

12,871 	
41	
223	
1,115 	
1,416 	

7,740
5
29
110
389

2012	

2011	

2010	

2009

162	
23	

162*	
24	

100	
8	

76
4

5. Waste
Table 5.1		Unit	
Total waste		
- of which hazardous waste		

Metric tons	
Metric tons	

* The comparative figure for 2011 has been restated as a result of missing data related to waste that was disposed of by a previous waste carrier, used in the first
quarter of 2012.

Waste consists primarily of disposable process equipment and egg waste. Disposable process equipment includes production bags,
tubing and other disposable equipment. The bags are autoclaved and sent to incineration. The egg waste is also sent to incineration.
Hazardous waste includes organic solvents, acids, bases, hazardous clinical waste, etc.
Breakdown of waste disposed of:
Table 5.2 			

2012	

2011	

2010	

2009

Incineration			
79%	
Recycling			
7%	
Special treatment			
14%	

76%	
8%	
15%	

80%	
11%	
8%	

83%
11%
6%

	18	CSR-report 2012

6. Air emissions
In accordance with the Company's environmental permit, measurements of air emissions have not been made since 2011, where measurements were performed after the installation of two new boilers to replace the old one.

Table 6					Unit	
2011
kg	
272
NOx/NO2					
CO					
kg	
77

7. Incidents of non-compliance with environmental protection legislation
Bavarian Nordic received a request from the environmental protection authorities for compliance with section 8 of the Danish environmental permits act because we built a concrete facing wall without having given the authorities advance notice first. The environmental authorities also issued an enforcement notice to secure compliance with a condition in connection with a way to prevent spillover
into the storm drain system. Both matters have been resolved, and there are no longer any outstanding issues with the environment
authorities.
We have received no complaints from next-door neighbors or others. We are aware of the importance of maintaining a good dialog
with our neighbors. When Bavarian Nordic established a the facility in Kvistgaard, we invited our neighbors to an information meeting,
just as our neighbors and the public in general were involved through two consultation exercises held in connection with the environmental assessment process. We have also carried out several projects based on suggestions from our neighbors. In our daily work, we
are occasionally in contact with our neighbors, especially in matters to do with noise, which is what affects them most directly. Also
because of this contact, we are aware of the impact we can have in connection with both our production and our construction projects.

Table 7				Unit	

2012 	

2011	

Violations of terms, etc. and accidental discharge			
Number 	
2	
2	
Complaints				
Number	0	0	

		

CSR-report 2012 	 19

CSR elements

			People	Planet	Profit
	
	
Our values				
Quality system				
		
			
Policies			
	
	
General CSR policy				
Environmental policy					
	
		
Health and safety policy	
	
	 	
	
	
Suppliers policy				
Trade in Company shares						
Handling of inside information	
	
	 	
	
	
			
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct						
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct						
Gifts, gratuities and entertainment						
Compliance with laws and regulations						
Conflicts of interest	
	
	 	
	
	
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)						
Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA)						
Government investigations						
Creating accurate records and preserving Company records					
Timekeeping requirements						
			
Working conditions			
		
Stress management and conflict management	 	
	 	
		
Dialog-based sickness absence management				
		
Health insurance	
	
	 	
		
Staff association				
		
Phantom share scheme				
			
Tools			
		
Management development training course				
		
Employee performance reviews 				
	
	
Ethics hotline for reporting violations, etc.				
			
Special committees and groups			
	
	
Values work group 				
Health and safety work group	
	
	 	
		
		
Health and safety committee	
	
	 	
		
Environment work group				
	
	
CSR group				
HR Forum	
	
	 	
		

	20	CSR-report 2012

GRI indicators

This CSR report was prepared with inspiration from parts of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)6 , a recognized framework for sustainability reporting. The GRI structure includes principles and indicators used to measure and explain financial, environmental and social
performance.

GRI ref.	 Description	Reference
Profile disclosure	
1.2	
Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities	
2.1	
Name of the organization	
2.2	
Primary brands, products, and/or services 	
2.3	
Operational structure of the organization, incl. main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries
and joint ventures	
2.4	
Location of organization’s headquarters	
2.5	
Number of countries where the organization operates 	
2.6	
Nature of ownership and legal form.	
2.7	
Markets 	
2.8	
Scale of the reporting organization 	
		
	
		
2.9	
Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership	
3.1	
Reporting period 	
3.2	
Date of most recent previous report 	
3.3	
Reporting cycle 	
3.4	
Contact point for questions regarding report 	
3.5	
Process for defining report content	
3.6	
Boundary of the report 	
3.7	
Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report	
3.9	
Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and
techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report	
3.10	
Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information in previous reports and the reasons
for such restatements 	
3.11	
Significant changes to previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 	
3.12	
Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 	
3.13	
Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 	
4.2	
Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 	
4.3	
The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members.	
4.8	
Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to
economic, environmental and social performance	
Economic performance indicators	
EC1	
Direct economic value generated and distributed	

6 http://www.globalreporting.org

Section 2
Section 2
Section 4
Annual report
Section 1
Section 2
Section 1
Section 1
Section 10
and annual
report
Annual report
Section 2
Section 2
Section 2
Back page
Section 2
Section 2
Section 2

Section 13
Section 10
Sections 2 & 13
Section 12
Section 9
Annual report
Annual report
Sections 3 & 6

Annual report

		

GRI ref.	

CSR-report 2012 	 21

Description	Reference

Environmental performance indicators	
EN1	
Materials used by weight or volume	
EN2	
Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials	
EN3	
Direct energy consumption by primary source 	
EN4	
Indirect energy consumption by primary source 	
EN5	
Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements	
EN8	
Total water withdrawal by source 	
EN16	
Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 	
EN17	
Other relevant indirect indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight	
EN18	
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 	
EN19	
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 	
EN20	
NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight	
EN21	
Total water discharge by quality and destination 	
EN22	
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 	
EN23	
Total number and volume of significant spills 	
EN24	
Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous 	
EN28	
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 	
Social performance indicators	
LA1	
Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 	
LA2	
Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 	
LA3	
Employee benefits	
LA4	
Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements	
LA7	
Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related
fatalities by region 	

Section 1	 Bavarian Nordic – in brief
Section 2	 Bavarian Nordic and CSR
Section 3	 Policies
Section 4	 Products
Section 5	 Environment and climate
Section 6	 Employees
Section 7	 Suppliers
Section 8	 Business ethics
Section 9	 Independent auditor's review report
Section 10	Key figures
Section 11	CSR elements
Section 12	GRI indicators
Section 13	Reporting principles

Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 5
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 5
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10
Section 10

Section 10
Section 10
Annual report
Section 10
Section 10

	22	CSR-report 2012

Reporting principles

The basic data for this report covers the
entities stated in the table. All data for
resource and raw materials consumption
of finished products comprises only the

production facility at Kvistgaard. Data has
been gathered to the extent it has been
accessible within the boundaries of our
existing systems.

Indicator	Reference	Entities included
Carbon Footprint (tCO2) 	
Other environmental data	
Accident rate	
Absence	
Number of employees 	
Employee turnover	

Table 1	
Tables 3-7	
Table 2	
Table 2	
Table 2	
Table 2	

K, M, B, C *
K
K, M, B, C, W, S
K, M, B
K, M, B, C, W, S
K, M, B, C, W, S **

K: Kvistgaard, M: Martinsried, B: Berlin, C: California (Mountain View), W: Washington, DC, S: Singapore
* The comparative figure for 2009 in table 1 does not include Berlin and Mountain View.
** The comparative figure for 2011 does not include Mountain View

Changes in reporting practice
This year's report states indexed C02
emissions per dose produced of our
IMVAMUNE® smallpox vaccine; the figure
is indexed to the year 2009. Previously,
the report stated C02 emissions per batch
produced, but the optimization of our
production process leads us to believe
that the figure per dose produced gives a
more true and faithful view.

equivalents. Emissions sources are divided
into three scopes: direct emissions from
activities under the Company’s control
(Scope 1), emissions from the consumption of electrical power (Scope 2) and indirect emissions from products and services
(Scope 3). According to the recommendations, organizations should report on
Scope 1 and Scope 2 as a minimum, and
this is what we have decided to do in our
carbon footprint statement.

Carbon footprint

We calculated the total carbon emissions from our locations at Kvistgaard,
Martinsried, Berlin and Mountain View
with a view to establishing a starting
point for the following four different types
of emissions:

Our carbon footprint calculations are
based on the standard and recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Initiative 7 for calculating an organization’s
total carbon emissions, which include the
six greenhouse gasses addressed by the
Kyoto Protocol – CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs
and SF6 – calculated in metric tons of CO2
7

www.ghgprotocol.org

Natural gas and oil
This figure is based primarily on current
consumption as measured by monthly

meter readings. Oil used for emergency
generators, however, is estimated on the
basis of oil consumption over a five-year
period. Greenhouse gas emissions from
the combustion of fossil fuels are calculated on the basis of an average emission
factor.
Fugitive emissions
Fugitive emissions include CO2 from the
use of dry ice and CO2 gas plus emissions
of greenhouse gasses from cooling and
refrigeration systems.
Electricity
Electrical power consumption is based on
meter readings recorded at the end of the
year. The calculation of greenhouse gas
emissions from electrical power consumption is based on specific emission factors
provided by the power company and an

CSR-report 2012 	 23

		

average emission factor for the generation of power in Germany.
Mileage (km)
This figure is calculated on the basis of
receipts from petrol companies and includes motor vehicles owned or leased by
the Company. Greenhouse gas emissions
are calculated on the basis of an average
fuel-specific emission factor for ordinary
cars in Denmark and Germany.
Emission factors
In calculating CO2 emissions, specific
emission factors based on emission type
and geographic location were used. CO2
emissions from the combustion of natural
gas, oil, petrol, diesel fuel and LPG and
from fugitive emissions were deemed to
have a general global effect with minor
local differences. Emission factors from
these sources are based on data provided
by the Danish Energy Agency 8, except for
natural gas emission factors for Mountain
View, which are based on figures from
The Pacific Gas and Electric Company 9, a
provider of natural gas and electricity in
California.
Emissions for locally purchased electricity
were determined on the basis of local
conditions. Emission factors for Kvistgaard
are based on factors for Denmark as a
whole 10. Emission calculations for electrical power at Mountain View are based
on emission factors provided by The
Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Emission
calculations for electrical power purchased
in Germany are based on general German
emission factors 11; emission calculations
for district heating purchased in Germany

are based on emission factors published
by the German confederation of energy
efficiency improvement within heating,
cooling, and combined heat and power
generation 12.
Indexed CO2 emissions
per dose produced
CO2 emissions per dose produced are
indexed to 2009 and calculated on the
basis of the number of batches initiated
and the average yield (number of doses)
per batch.

Employees
Absence
Absence data includes registration of staff
sick days and child sick days. Leave – also
maternity and paternity leave – is not included in these figures. The absence rate
was calculated by dividing the number of
days of absence by the average number
of full-time employees for the year, times
the number of work days in the calendar
year.
Employee turnover
Staff turnover is calculated as the number
of employees that left their jobs divided
by the average number of employees
over the course of the year.
Accidents
Work-related accident data relates to accidents resulting in more than one day of
absence. The definition of 'work-related
accident' in Danish law is the definition
applicable in this document. The accident
rate is calculated using the total annual

number of working hours in the Group
based on the average annual number of
full-time employees, times the number
of annual working hours. Holidays are not
included.

Raw and ancillary materials
Raw materials for production are calculated based on the Company's inventory
system (ERP system), and figures refer to
consumption for the year. Ancillary materials (acids/bases, salt and refrigerants)
are materials sourced during the year, and
figures are based on invoiced purchases.

Water
Water consumption is calculated for
the entire Kvistgaard facility, including
laboratories and administrative functions.
Process wastewater is collected and measured, and wastewater is measured and
analyzed once or twice a year. The volumes stated are based on the averages of
these measurements.

Waste
Waste volumes are calculated based on
annual statements from approved waste
carriers handling ordinary and hazardous
waste.

8

http://www.ens.dk/da-DK/KlimaOgCO2/CO2Kvoter/produktionsenheder/co2_rapportering/Documents/standardfaktorer%202011.pdf

9

http://www.pge.com/myhome/environment/calculator/assumptions.shtml

10

" Energinet", an independent public enterprise under the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building, http://www.energinet.dk/DA/KLIMA-OG-MILJOE/Miljoedeklarationer/
Sider/Miljoedeklarering-af-1-kWh-el.aspx

11

IEA, The International Energy Agency, an independent organization working to ensure reliable, cheap and clean energy for its 28 member countries

12

AGFW, "Der Energieeffizienzverband für Wärme, Kälte und KWK e. V."

Phone: +45 3326 8383
www.bavarian-nordic.com
info@bavarian-nordic.com

Design and graphic production: meyer & bukdahl as

Bavarian Nordic A/S
Hejreskovvej 10A
DK-3490 Kvistgaard
Denmark

