Corporate social
Responsibility (CSR)
2012 was yet another year with considerable changes
at NeuroSearch, and the company had to say goodbye
to a significant number of employees. As a
consequence of the restructuring, several activities
have been abandoned. We have resigned from UN
Global Compact and no longer comply with the aim of
submitting a Communications On Progress (COP)
report, and our reporting is merely included in our
Annual Report. NeuroSearch has not due to the size of
the company and the level of activities adopted any
policies on the corporate social responsibility.
In connection with the staff reductions, it was our aim to
treat all employees in a fair and respectful way. Most
dismissed employees were offered career counseling
and a large part of the dismissed employees went
directly on to new jobs in other companies. This meant
that the organisational change went faster than
originally planned. In September 2012, the collaboration
agreement between NeuroSearch and Janssen was
transferred to Aniona, which at the same time took over
the full responsibility of 12 employees transferred from
NeuroSearch. Aniona has had physical facilities at their
disposal from NeuroSearch as well as various kinds of
administrative assistance.
The considerable reduction of activities in NeuroSearch
has made laboratory and office equipment etc.
redundant. NeuroSearch intends to put equipment of
commercial value up for sale while remaining
equipment has been or will be given away amongst
others to educational institutions.

Work environment
The physical, chemical and biological work environment
has been simplified concurrently with the reduction of
the activities in NeuroSearch. Aniona, which is doing
research, has received assistance from NeuroSearch in
these areas relating to transfer of various permits necessary for the research work. In this way, NeuroSearch

11

NEUROSEARCH 2012

has also ensured a secure close-down of laboratory
activities which more specifically has included removal
of chemicals, disinfection of all areas having been used
for gene modified organisms as well as waste handling
complying with rules and regulations.
NeuroSearch had expected that the mental work environment would have been under considerable pressure
in connection with the employee reduction. However,
the result of a survey at the beginning of 2012 showed
that the overall mental work environment was at a satisfactory level, while only a few areas obtained low
scores. Action plans and follow-up have been made for
these areas amongst others with consultancy advice
from a business psychologist.

Animal welfare
NeuroSearch no longer conducts animals tests.
Environment and climate
The company's objective was to reduce the total CO2
emission by 60% in 2012 compared to 2011. It was the
original plan to close down one third of the company's
activities on 1 September 2012, but as Aniona was
offered to continue its activities in the NeuroSearch
building, the planned reduction of 60% could not be
reached.
With a change from natural gas to district heating of the
building in August 2011, a reduction of 62% was
achieved.
The company's consumption of electricity contributes
with a CO2 emission nine times higher than the emission relating to the district heating. The consumption of
electricity is reduced with 29% from 2011 to 2012.
In total, CO2 emission relating to heating and electricity
was reduced by 35% from 2011 to 2012.

