Annual Review

Shareholders information and corporate governance

Social responsibilityRIAS A/S wants to do business in a responsible way and continuouslyworks to create coherence between the strategy of the company and theresponsibility towards the society with which the company is in contact. For
RIAS A/S, the work on corporate social responsibility is a continuous process,and in 2011/2012, the company has continue to work on focusingthe work and structuring the necessary internal processes.Based on an assessment of essential, the company is working on the
areas employees, environment, supplier relations as well as anti-corruption.The following describes the general policy, how the policy has beenconverted into action as well as what has been achieved, where possible.Social conditionsEnsuring good social conditions for employees is an important element forthe company. On a monthly basis, a follow-up on absence due to sicknessis carried out for the purpose of improving job satisfaction. In general, thecompany is continuously working on securing the best possible workingenvironment. Furthermore, the company has a high awareness as to thehealth of the employees, which has specifically led to the company contributingto a health insurance scheme.EnvironmentThe company has a limited environmental impact, which is mainly caused
by PVC waste from products and CO2 consumption related to thecompany’s buildings. The company is working determinedly to reduce theenvironmental impact of PVC waste, which entails cooperation with theorganization Wuppi, which collects and disposes of PVC waste in asustainable manner.Furthermore, the company has initiated a project to reduce energy consumptionby implementing various energy-conserving measures in warehouse, productionas well as administration. A complete measurement of the CO2 consumptionhas not yet been established, which means that no results can be stated.
Human rightsThe company typically enters into long-term supplier relations, and they areprimarily located in Europe. Apart from financial and quality-related evaluations,the overall evaluation of the individual supplier also contains anevaluation as to whether the supplier exercises conventional social responsibility,including that the supplier does not employ child labour etc.Fight against corruptionThe company has implemented a ”whistleblower” hotline, where the employeeshave the possibility of informing impartial persons in a law firm aboutviolation of legislation, or suspicion thereof, including corruption or cartelformation. There have been no approaches in 2012.