
Statutory statement of corporate social responsibility
Roblon considers corporate social responsibility (CSR) to be a
completely natural part of the company’s business principles.
Responsibility towards society helps to define the overall scope
for the activities, which are initiated.
In this way Roblon works continually towards maintaining a
healthy and safe working environment. Our focus at all times
is on reducing the company’s environmental impact on our surroundings, using materials efficiently and optimally and also
on recycling materials where possible in order to continually
reduce waste. At the same time, we are working on reducing
our energy consumption. Good business ethics are similarly an
inherently natural “must” at Roblon.
Roblon has not come up with a structured approach to explain
the relationship between CSR and value-creating business operations, and for this reason has not adopted policies for the
area. As a consequence of this, there is no separate statement
for the area.

Sustainability in Roblon

Energy-savings and concern for the environment are high on the
agenda at Roblon, with the company working constantly to optimise processes and reduce the waste of resources. These initiatives create a sustainable starting point for Roblon’s continued
growth, and one focus area is creating target visibility among
employees by holding information meetings and involving staff
in specific projects.
In 2012, the approach has included a review of Roblon’s three
production facilities by internal and external energy consultants, as well as the energy optimisation of both buildings and
production processes. Against this background, Roblon’s total
energy consumption has gone down by 3%, and the initiative
will continue in 2013 with the aim of reducing consumption by
a further 8%. This target will be achieved by improving energy
use by means of, for example, greater heat recovery using heat
exchangers and automation.

Roblon has also focused on reducing unnecessary use of resources by continuing to optimise processes and increase the recycling of waste and packaging. For 2012/2013 this means, among
other things, that more than 100 tonnes of glass waste from
cable production will be recycled by a business partner rather
than being disposed of and scrapped as used to be the case.
Sustainability is also a crucial factor in the development of new
products, where work is ongoing to optimise energy efficiency
and safety so that the customers achieve optimum production conditions. The overall effort to create more sustainable
production processes and products puts Roblon in a stronger
position in relation to the global competition by reducing production costs and ensuring that it is also possible for us to continue to offer customers products with an attractive energy and
environmental profile.

Roblon focus on optimization of processes
and as part of this glass waste from cable production is being recycled.
Sustainability in Roblon / Management´s review / 39

