SPAR NORD’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

We are also actively involved and engaged internally. We listen to
our employees. We also listen to ourselves, continuously reflecting
on our market conduct and on where our involvement can best benefit both the community and Spar Nord. This is why engagement is
intrinsic to our every action and, as such, one of our core values.

NOTE

SPAR NORD’S PRINCIPLES
•

Our engagement is business-driven the measures we implement must contribute
to our business.

•

Our engagement is the sum of local
initiatives - we work to give something back
to the local communities in which we operate.

•

Our active involvement and engagement are
well considered - we operate and put the
main emphasis on one project at a time.

•

Our active involvement and engagement
are focused - we would rather do one thing
with single-minded purpose than two things
halfway.

•

FOCUS AND MEASUREMENT
To target our active involvement and engagement and solidify these
efforts, making them measurable, we approach our business and
social responsibility with a continual focus on distinctive aspects of
active involvement and engagement. We believe the best results are
obtained by focusing on one initiative at a time. This also means that
we develop our responsibility step by step over time. This helps ensure that new actions rest on strong foundations and bring lasting
improvements.
We follow up the themes highlighted one year by measuring them
in subsequent years. This ensures that words and headings become
concrete action and palpable improvements for everyone involved.

Our engagement is dynamic - we evolve
and scale over time.

INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES
Spar Nord supports the Danish Government’s endeavours to put
Corporate Social Responsibility at the top of the agenda, and we
also support the intentions underlying international initiatives like
the UN Global Compact and PRI. Nevertheless, we have chosen not
to formally commit ourselves to the two UN reporting initiatives.
This decision should be viewed in light of the fact that we already
endavour to abide by the principles, and also that our activities are
very locally slanted.

Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, is something we take seriously at Spar Nord and have done so for many years. However, we
prefer to translate this fashionable term into our own language and
reality because experience shows that this produces better defined
and more focused action.
At Spar Nord we have therefore grouped our initiatives and activities
relating to social responsibility under the heading of “Active involvement and engagement”.

GENDER & CAREER
From 2010 to 2012, we made the theme topic “Gender & Career”
our special area of focus. We chose this theme because for decades
people have discussed how gender equality leads to better business. Thus, the theme Gender & Career harmonizes with the ideal of
business-driven social responsibility, its purpose being to promote
gender equality, to maximize talent potential regardless of gender
and to create an even better match between the Bank’s customers
and the staff and executives who advise them.

Active involvement and engagement relate to very specific behaviour, not abstract principles. We believe that our responsibility as a
company and a financial institution is anchored in close involvement
with customers and the local community. A responsibility and an involvement that are embedded as given elements in our history and
culture and on which our business depends.

Spar Nord’s commercial target group consists of ordinary retail customers and local businesses. This makes having a broad composition at both the executive and non-executive levels desirable. In
terms of gender the Bank thus aims to be an attractive workplace
for both men and women, one where working life and private life
strike a good balance.

Active involvement and engagement imply a presence manifest in
tangibly physical proximity but also in less tangible qualities such as
receptiveness and attentiveness. Both kinds of presence are pivotal
to Spar Nord. All our business builds on local decision-making, local
presence and active participation in the local community. We also
take pride in placing the customer first, thereby showing our active
involvement and engagement in the advice we give.

Spar Nord Bank

41

Annual Report 2012

SPAR NORD’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

NOTE

Precisely because this topic is so important, the inclusion of financial insight in school curricula has gained widespread interest both
politically and in the education and financial sectors. This will entail
a lengthy process, but Spar Nord and other financial institutions can
make a vital contribution by developing materials and making them
available.

EMPLOYEE DATA

Employees (full-time)

2011

2012

1,397

1,653 *)

Of which women (%)

53

53

Of which men (%)

47

47

New appointments

64

Resignations

Educationally speaking, various aspects of personal finances notably constitute a highly relevant field of instruction - particularly in
maths, but also in social sciences.

128

Average age (year)

45.2

45.2

Average seniority (year)

13.2

13.1

Female executives
Mid-level managers (no./%)
Managing directors/executives (no./%)
Sickness absence (sector/Spar Nord)
*)

38/24
7/14

8/16

3.0/2.7

- /2.3

Spar Nord’s initiatives
In step with the ideal of engagement, Spar Nord has prepared activities based on cooperation with primary and lower secondary schools
in the local community. The goal is to develop a series of educational
materials jointly with experts in maths and didactics and to make
them available free of charge to schools and teachers that want to
cover the subject in their lessons.

1,520 after resignations decided in Q4 have been executed.

Recognizing that the current reality does not match the Bank’s goals
and visions, Spar Nord has launched a targeted action aimed at increasing the number of women in executive positions. Thus, gender
and career have become a joint action area for the Group as a whole,
with action being taken both centrally and locally.

The first classroom material is a folder titled “Wising up on money”,
which caters to children aged 13 to 15 (classes 7 to 8) and addresses
topics like interest, savings, loans and currency. This educational
folder has now been distributed in 40,000 copies to schools nationwide - and has generally been received very positively.

Highlights among the initiatives implemented last year:
•
•
•
•
•

A job bank for employees interested in an executive career
was launched
A mentor programme targeted at executive talents was
developed and launched
Job position profiles and recruitment procedures were
evaluated
Gender and career were integrated in staff performance
appraisals
A Ph.D. project on gender and career was conducted

In March 2013, a folder will be published with material aimed at the
youngest classes and dealing with the basics required for financial
understanding.
The free material is not only aimed at maths teachers but also available at Spar Nord’s local banks for parents who want to discuss
these topics with their children. Finally, Spar Nord’s employees offer to give guest lectures to the relevant age brackets and to discuss
the main topics contained in the material with them.

Results
In 2012, the number and share of female executives rose from 7 to
8 and from 14% to 16%, while the share of female mid-level managers (departmental managers, customer managers, etc.) remained
unchanged at 24% (38 persons).

GOAL FOR 2013
The goal for 2013 is to get the educational material prepared by Spar
Nord to 40,000 pupils in the relevant age brackets via the various
channels available. Further, we want a representative sample of the
teachers using the material to evaluate it with an average score of at
least 4 (good) on a scale from 1 to 5.

In 2012, vacancies for one executive and six middle manager positions were advertised. 13% of the in-house applicants for managerial position and 21% of in-house applicants for middle manager
positions were women.

ACTIVITIES IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES
Examples of some of the many ongoing activities in Spar Nord’s local neighbourhoods are shown on p. 44. More than 500 local activities were undertaken in 2012 alone.

FINANCIAL INSIGHT
We have decided to make “Financial insight” the next action highlighted. We chose this theme topic because a number of surveys
show that children and young people extensively lack basic insight
into financial concepts and issues – and thus the competences required to act and make decisions affecting one’s personal finances.

Spar Nord Bank

42

Annual Report 2012

SPAR NORD’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

NOTE

Summer course for mathematics, physics and computer-game nerds
In 2012, the Spar Nord Foundation sponsored several alternative summer courses all over Denmark. More than 60 mathematics enthusiasts
had fun working out functional equations and dynamic systems during
the summer at the University of Copenhagen’s Department of Chemistry
& Mathematics.

Word Power at the Power Company
Denmark’s only poetry festival - “Ordkraft” (Word Power) - was held for
the second time in Aalborg in 2012 at the former power company. The subtlety and intricacy of words were thoroughly explored during the four festival days. Jørgen Leth is shown here reciting poetry, accompanied by “Det
Glemte Kvarter” jazz band.

Town-wide Dieting Scheme
The collective diet “Randers on the Scales” got off to a very successful start in 2012. The concept will be enlarged in 2013 to include the
towns of Skagen, Horsens, Esbjerg and Køge - with participants totalling 3,665.

Mushroom research
White patches on the mushroom map. The Spar Nord Foundation is supporting a new team of research scientists at Aalborg University whose
daily work consists of discovering new substances in mushrooms - substances which could become the medicines of tomorrow.

Spar Nord Bank

44

Annual Report 2012

