Corporate social responsibilitySydbank has not formulated a general CSR policy. All the sameSydbank is an enterprise operating as a responsible player insociety while respecting its business goals.The Bank is an active player in the activities of associationsand sports. Numerous sponsorships are nurtured locally andregionally – not least amateur associations. In additionSydbank’s sponsorship funds give small and large donationsfor cultural and social purposes.Local and regional commitment is the cornerstone ofSydbank’s corporate mission and one of the reasons why theBank remains the business partner characterised by proximityand local knowledge – despite its nationwide presence.Within the investment area Sydbank’s social responsibility isprimarily exercised via the manner in which investments aremade in the portfolios managed by the Bank. The Bank finds itthat the companies invested in comply with the UN
Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). The Bank collaborates
with GES Investment Services in this area.laborates with GES Investment Services in this area.Also in relation to its employees the Bank takes its socialresponsibility seriously. Continuous initiatives within stressprevention, senior policy schemes and health promotion constitutesome of the reasons why Sydbank is a highly attractiveworkplace.

Every year the Bank hires a number of newly qualified youngemployees – primarily financial economists and bachelor offinance graduates. On employment the new graduates typicallyreceive one year’s further training in the Bank.In terms of energy, continuing efforts seek to reduce the energyconsumption associated with the Bank’s activities. Sydbankaims to be among the best in this area within the industry. Thefirst solar cell system was established in 2012 in connectionwith the construction of a new regional head office in Slagelse.In 2013 Sydbank plans to establish more solar cell systems tocover part of the Bank’s energy consumption.As opposed to the majority of businesses, banks must pay apayroll tax in addition to corporation tax. The payroll tax is calculatedon the basis of salaries, pensions etc paid. Moreoverbanks carry the additional burden of only being entitled to apartial VAT deduction on purchase, services etc.Taxes paid by the Bank/non-deductible VAT in 2012
DKKm

2012

Corporation tax

228

Payroll tax

93

Non-deductible VAT

102

Total


423

The Bank’s activities and CSR efforts aim to emphasize
Sydbank’s position as ethically sound – among employees,clients and other stakeholders.

The Bank does not carry out targeted follow-up activities on
the effect of the efforts within this area.


2012 Annual Report

27

