Statutory report on corporate social responsibility 
Veloxis’ policies regarding corporate social responsibility comprise partly our working environment and partly business partners 
and suppliers. We do not expect to make material capital investments as a result of the planned initiatives within corporate social 
responsibility. Moreover, we do not expect that the activities will require significantly increased administrative resources 
compared with previously.  
#
Environment 
Veloxis is an emerging speciality pharmaceutical company without either laboratories or production facilities as these facilities 
have been closed following the company’s restructuring during the year, and hence the Group’s consumption of energy and 
other natural resources and its discharges of substances into the air and water are limited.   
 
Working environment 
The objective of our working environment activities is to create continuous improvements in relation to the safety, health and 
workplace satisfaction of our employees. In order to ensure that Veloxis remains a safe workplace, we continuously monitor our 
performance:  
 
• Assessment of absent due to the working environment. 
• Assessment of incidents and nearby incidents related to working environment. 
• Established a WESO (Work Environment Safety Organization) group which meet three times a year. 
 
Throughout the year only a few minor incidents have occurred and have been handled by the WESO organization as part of their 
work and oversight. 
 
Further the company has established a whistleblower system that all employees can use anonymously to contact the audit 
committee if they experience nonFcompliance with Veloxis’ policies and procedures. 
 
Business partners and suppliers 
Veloxis’ policy for business partners and suppliers is to work to promote good business conduct and reasonable environmental 
and social standards with those with whom we do business.  
 
Our policy for business partners and suppliers is incorporated into our quality assurance system. When entering into agreements 
with external business partners and suppliers we ensure that we have a right to make control visits to our external business 
partners and suppliers to ensure that our requirements are met.  
 
During the year we have performed 12 visits and audits (10 in 2011) at our most important partners and suppliers in the United 
States, Europe, Brazil, Mexico and India, to ensure that all of our quality requirements were adhered to. The visits did not result 
in any material remarks. 
 
This information forms the statutory report on corporate social responsibility according to the Danish Financial Statements Act, 
Section 99a. 
22 

 

