24

Ambu annual report 2009 | 2010

CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
Ambu has always focused on corporate social responsibility, and Ambu’s aim has been to create real
value both for the company and for society at large through the company’s products and through
working with corporate social responsibility. By structuring and ensuring a sense of ownership of these
efforts in the organisation, Ambu is working in a targeted fashion to strengthen the link between
responsible and value-creating corporate behaviour.
Ambu’s business is inextricably linked to social responsibility. This is not
solely due to the fact that it is Ambu’s vision to save lives and improve
patient care. Working with corporate social responsibility also contributes
to forging good relations with customers and suppliers, increasing productivity and reducing waste, reducing non-financial risks and strengthening the company’s identity and culture.

Ambu’s structured work with business-driven corporate social responsibility is based on the principles of the UN’s Global Compact initiative and
can be divided into three overall focus areas which are particularly relevant for Ambu’s efforts:
• People and community
• Environment and products
• Business ethics

25

In 2009/10, a CSR unit was set up to work with business-driven corporate social responsibility comprising employees from Sales and Marketing,
Finance, HR, Communications, R&D and Operations. The unit reports to
the Executive VP for Finance, IT and Business Systems. The CSR unit is responsible for ensuring that Ambu monitors developments in the area and
reports to the Executive Board. Once a year, action plans are made for the
coming year based on a workshop for the CSR unit and representatives of
the other organisational units in Ambu as well as representatives of

Ambu’s subsidiaries. Moreover, the CSR unit meets every quarter and as
required.
With reference to the three overall focus areas, a Corporate Guideline
was prepared in 2009/10 setting out nine guidelines for the work on
business-driven corporate social responsibility in Ambu. Furthermore, the
efforts currently being made within these areas have been mapped, and
specific action plans have been made for future activities.

Nine common guidelines for Ambu’s corporate social responsibility work
People and community

Environment and products

Business ethics

Guidelines

Guidelines

Guidelines

1. We work to promote diversity, and we do
not accept discrimination of employees.
2. We work for a safe and healthy working
environment.
3. We ban the use of forced and child labour.
4. We support local education.

5. We focus on reducing Ambu’s environmental impact in our work on innovation and in
the production and distribution of our products.
6. We use materials efficiently and strive to
optimise packaging and reduce waste.
7. We work to reduce energy consumption.

8. We are obliged to comply with legislation
and rules in the countries in which we operate. In cases where no legislation or rules
exist, we comply with international standards and industrial norms.
9. We do not accept bribery or any form of
corruption.

Actions and results

Actions and results

Actions and results

• Efforts are being made to increase the safety of all processes, and the number of workrelated accidents and injuries is measured.
• Supplier assessments are conducted to ensure that forced and child labour is not
used in the supply chain.
• In connection with the transfer of production, Ambu has invested in strengthening
the competences of the employees who
have been made redundant.

• Work has gone into the design of packaging and choice of packaging material to
reduce environmental impacts in connection with transport.
• Investments have been made in video conference equipment to reduce environmental
impacts in connection with travelling.
• Print and copy concepts have been introduced to reduce the number of prints and
copies made, and investments have been
made in IT solutions and in optimising production equipment with a view to minimising energy consumption.

• All senior employees have signed the
company’s Code of Conduct, and in Ambu’s
internal procedures the emphasis is on
compliance with legislation and rules.

Further information on Ambu’s Corporate Guideline for its work with Corporate Social Responsibility can be found at www.ambu.com.

