ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2010

on the basis of corporate and social responsibility
– a trend which is expected to be strengthened in
the years to come.
The Arkil Group carries out construction work,
including asphalt production based on departments in
Denmark, Germany and Ireland as well as production
of Inpipe-liners in Sweden.
The Group wishes to expand its business in a way,
which is both socially and financially sustainable.
Apart from complying with legislation on all the
plants, it is also the Group’s policy to live up to
ethical codex in respect of both environmental and
work related conditions and avoid corruption.
The work in respect of corporate social responsibility
is deeply rooted in the Arkil Group’s values and is a
natural part of the organisation’s behaviour towards
the outside world.
To an increasing extent, Arkil will make the effect of
the efforts within this area visible.

CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

The Arkil Group has always had focus on delivering
production and services of a high quality, having
good and long lasting customer and supplier relations, having motivated employees and living in
harmony with the near environment. Corporate and
social responsibility has, thus, always been an
important factor for Arkil. Today, customers, contractors and other stakeholders demand to an increasing
extent that Arkil’s production and services take place

The Arkil Group’s codex of business principles is
available on Arkil’s website – www.arkil.dk.

Environmental conditions

In Arkil Holding, environmental conditions are regarded in a broad perspective, and this covers both the
external environment and the working environment.
Environmental conditions are thus viewed broadly
and are always part of the projects carried out in the
departments and companies included in the Group.
In 2010, the building and construction industry
showed increased awareness and focus on working
environment. This trend will also prevail in the years
to come. It is therefore important to maintain constant focus and awareness on a safe environment in
the company.
The departments in the Asphalt division are certified
in accordance with the quality standard ISO 9001,
the environmental standard ISO 14001, the working
environment standard OHSAS 18001. In addition,
all our asphalt products have been CE marked in
accordance with DS/EN 13108. The management
system is described in a handbook covering the 3 ISO
standards as well as the standard DS/EN 13108. Both
internal and external audits were carried out in 2010.

26

ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2010

In 2010, the Danish Working Environment Services
visited Arkil on several occasions. This included visits
at building sites in connection with the Danish
Working Environment Authority’s control of building
and construction companies, during which the
companies’ handling of safety at workplaces is
controlled. The working environment organisation at
Arkil has an ongoing dialogue and a good cooperation with the Danish Working Environment Services,
where possibilities of improvement and preventive
actions in respect of safety at work are discussed
constructively.
Arkil has focus on increased reuse of raw materials
and reduction of energy consumption to the benefit
of the environment. Thus, recycling plants have been
installed at several of the Group’s asphalt plants.
The effort for a better environment and larger
sustainability takes place on an ongoing basis in
relation to customers, production and services in
connection with development as well as in relation to
the Group’s own direct external impacts on the
environment and the climate.

Safety

Arkil’s working environment policy is our pledge to
bring down the number of work accidents through an
active and targeted effort to the Group’s goal of:
Zero work accidents and zero absences due to work
accidents.
2010 saw new rules within the area of working
environment, which is of importance for the company. There are two significant changes as well as
changed requirements to the working environment
course. From being a 5 days’ course this is now a 3
days’ course with an offer for 2 days further within
the first year. Annual plans for the working environment and development of competences must also be
implemented in Arkil’s work on the working environment.
In 2010 the working environment organisation has
focused on visiting construction sites throughout the
country. Thus, the company’s coordinator for working
environment has visited more than 100 construction
sites. All departments and all types of construction
sites have been visited.

27

In order to support the work carried out in relation to
the working environment, the Management has
visited a number of work places over the summer in
order to evaluate the working environment.
The Management and the coordinator of working
environment have focused on safety, e.g. in relation
to excavations, but also use of personal protective
equipment. All this to ensure the employees in best
possible way.
Despite the preventive efforts from the local working
environment committees and the many visits to
construction sites, there has been an increase in the
accident frequency. The number of work accidents in
2010 was 47, with a total of 520 absence days. The
accident frequency rose from 22 per million working
hours in 2009 to 29 per million working hours 2010.
It is, however, encouraging to see that the days of
absence have dropped considerably. On average, there
were 2.4 hours of absence per 1,000 working hours
against 3.7 hours of absence per 1,000 working hours
in 2009. This tells us that working accidents that
happened in 2010 have been less severe than in 2009.
The accident frequency is expected to be on the level
of or slightly above the average within the industry.
The goal still remains zero work accidents and zero
absence days. Increased focus on preventive actions
and strengthening of safety work in the departments
are the means to achieving this goal.
Again in 2010, a working environment related courses
were held, more specifically training in occupational
health and the courses “Vejen som arbejdsplads” (“The
Road as a Workplace”) and “Pas på banen” (“Take
Care on the Tracks”). All intended to raise awareness
and increase focus on a safe work environment.
The trend in accident frequency rates and absenteeism
due to accidents can be seen in these diagrams.

ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2010

A ccid e nt f re q ue n cy 20 05 – 2010

40,0
30,0
25,0

The knowledge and capabilities of its employees are
important elements in making it possible for the Arkil
Group to make a difference. This is why every year
the company invests significant resources in the
maintenance and development of the employees’
skills.

20,0
15,0
10,0
5,0

Entire industry

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

0,0

Arkil A/S

Work a b se n ce 20 05 – 2 01 0

Hours lost per 1000 man-hours worked

Absence is calculated as the number of hours lost
per 1000 man-hours worked
6,0
5,0
4,0
3,0
2,0
1,0
2010

2009

Entire industry

2008

2007

2006

2005

0,0
man-hours

Arkil’s knowledge and competence have been built up
around the Group’s organisation and employees.
Competency development and initiatives to recruit
and maintain employees are high priorities in the
Arkil Group.

35,0

2005

Accidents per 1 million man-hours worked

Accident frequency is calculated as the number of
accidents per 1 million man-hours worked.

Knowledge and competence

Arkil A/S

The official 2010 numbers for the industry have not
yet been published.

Sickness absence

Avoidance of sickness absence is of high priority in
the Arkil Group, and the development in sickness
absence is monitored closely by the Management.
The development in sickness absence is analysed by
the Group’s Human Resource department in cooperation with the Management, and necessary measures
are taken should the analyses reveal a need for this.
In 2010 the percent of sickness absence in the Danish
companies amounted to 3.92%, compared to 4.43%
in 2009.

The staff at Arkil is dedicated and stable and possess
a high level of expert knowledge on the Group’s
business areas.
Through the staff and educational policy that has
been formulated, the Group attempts at all times to
maintain and extend the knowledge and competence
of the employees and to attract new, experienced
employees. The knowledge and skill of our employees
are nurtured and further developed wthrough both
external and internal courses and through involvement in execution and management of different
projects and special assignments. Direct collaboration
between the Group’s departments and business areas
both in Denmark and abroad is being developed
continuously and is helping to guarantee greater
sharing of experience and knowledge.
As a natural continuation of the seminars “the road to
the future” established in 2009, an internal education
of managers and employees has been commenced.
The education takes place within the framework
of the established education at Arkil Academy.
The education takes places partly internally at Arkil
and partly externally at IBC with start-up in the
spring of 2011.
The objective of the education is to strengthen the
managers’ knowledge and competences in respect of
operational and strategically management targeted at
Arkil’s areas of business and models as well as to
ensure recruitment of new managers within the
organisation.
Arkil has a rota system for newly qualified engineers.
The rota system is a goal-oriented procedure that will

28

ARKIL HOLDING Directors’ Report for 2010

enable the newly qualified engineers to become
familiar with the Group’s many different work and
business areas.
The purpose of the rota system is to draw in the
best engineers, who are attracted by dynamic and
continous education, so that the Group can educate
engineers with the right competences for the building
contractor sector.
In 2010 the Group employed 1,623 members of staff,
where 366 are administrative staff. 216 members of
the staff have an engineering or technical background.