Corporate Social
Responsibility Report
2010

	2	 ﻿

Content

Bavarian Nordic and Corporate Social Responsibility

3

Ratios4
Corporate social responsibility policies	

5

Environment	

6

Employees	

8

Suppliers	

11

Auditor’s report	

12

Reporting principles and practice	

13

		 Bavarian Nordic and Corporate Social Responsibility 	 3

Bavarian Nordic and
Corporate Social Responsibility
At Bavarian Nordic, we contribute to a healthier, safer and more secure
society through the development and manufacture of innovative vaccines
for prevention and treatment of life-threatening diseases where there are
currently unmet medical treatment needs.
In this way, our products can help make a difference for people
both healthy and ill. Part of the Company works in the field of
biodefence1, i.e. the development and production of vaccines for
protection against acts of bioterrorism. Should the worst-case
scenario come true, this work could help save the lives of many
people. The other part of the Company works to develop vaccines for the treatment of cancer patients. Through our research,
we wish to continue to contribute to human health through the
development of new vaccines.
We feel it is very much our responsibility to supply products
of very high quality: our quality management system ensures
consumers products that are safe, pure and effective. The
pharmaceutical industry works according to the rules of Good
Manufacturing Practice, or GMP. GMP includes strict requirements
with respect to a product’s traceability, strength, quality and
purity, which means that quality control has to be built into each
step of the manufacturing process. GMP rules are laid down by
the Danish, European and American health authorities. Bavarian
Nordic supplies these markets and thus complies with these
quality requirements. Product safety is crucial in our business,
and quality and responsibility have been built into our systems
and our entire corporate culture.
As a result of a targeted effort, initiated in 2010, to systematise
our work with corporate social responsibility (CSR), we now have
an actual general CSR policy which includes policies in the areas
we have deemed vital to our work.
Report structure
This CSR report is part of the annual report’s management statement as signed and approved by the Board of Directors and
Corporate Management on 10 March 2011.

1

Protection against biological terrorism

2

http://www.globalreporting.org

This is the second CSR report to be issued by the Company, so it
includes a follow-up on the goals we set for ourselves in 2009.
Just like last year’s document, this CSR report was inspired by
elements from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)2, a recognised framework for reports on sustainability. The GRI structure
includes principles and indicators used to measure and explain
financial, environmental and social performance. We have added
more GRI indicators to this 2010 CSR report and will also in future
strive to expand our reporting, but only in those fields which are
directly or indirectly related to the future development of the
Company’s business and activities.
We have defined our work with social responsibility on the basis
of a number of stakeholder groups and will, as we did in 2009,
continue to concentrate on the environment, our employees and
our suppliers. We take our starting point in our previous environmental reporting, which has been in the form of the green
accounts we have published since 2005, when our production
facility in the town of Kvistgård opened. Going forward, we will
look at whether it is relevant to include other stakeholders.
Bavarian Nordic has offices and facilities in six different locations
across four different countries. Local differences in statistical
methods and regulatory requirements regarding data on environment, health and safety, working hours, absence, etc. make it
difficult to provide uniform reporting across the Group within
certain of the areas we include in this report. We worked on this
challenge in 2010, and as a result we were able to include more
of our facilities in this report, but we also found that we had to
make minor changes to the methods used in some of our calculations. The figures for 2009 have been adjusted in this respect to
provide a fair basis for comparison.

	4	 Key figures

Key figures

Our reporting was primarily focused on our largest facilities:
Kvistgård (industrial production, quality control laboratories,
technical services and administration), Martinsried (research and
development), Berlin (production of clinical trial materials) and
Mountain View (research and development). Taken together,

	

Year	

Total	

Kvistgård	

these facilities employ more than 98% of the Group's employees
and consume by far the greatest amount of energy. The remaining facilities are offices facilities only and thus of minor importance in this respect.

Martinsried	

Berlin	

Mountain View	 Washington	 Singapore

2010	
3,382 	
X	X	
X	X	
Carbon Footprint (tCO2)	

-	-

	
2009	2,631	
		(2,543)

X	

X	

-	

-	

-	

-

Work accident rate*	

X	

X	

X	

X	

X	

X

2010	

7.6	

	
2009	
15.2	
X	X	
X	X	
		(15.0)
Absence (leave not included)	

2010	

4.6%	

	
2009	4.6%	
		(4.9%)
Average number of	

2010	

377	

X	X

X	

X	

X	

*	

*	

-

X	

X	

X	

*	

*	

-

206	

128		

full-time employees	
2009	 337	
176	
101	
26	
		(340)	(177)			

37	

4	

2

28	
(30)

4	

2

X = Included in key figures calculations.
* Number of accidents per million working hours.
() F rom the 2009 CSR report. The figures for work-related accident rate and absence have been adjusted due to changes in calculation methods, also to include a more correct
specification of data. The carbon footprint figure has been adjusted to correct for incorrectly stated heating consumption data for Martinsried and to account for oil used in an
emergency generator at Kvistgård.
* The Group’s USA sites work with figures for total absence only and do not divide it into types, which makes it impossible to state absence due to illness as a separate category.

		

CSR policies 	 5

CSR policies

We have most recently drafted corporate social responsibility
(CSR) policies in 2010. These policies are a natural extension of
the goals and targets we work towards as a company.

Our goals in the environment, health and safety field are specified in greater detail in our environmental and occupational
health and safety policies.

General CSR policy
Bavarian Nordic develops and manufactures vaccines for the
prevention and treatment of life-threatening diseases where
there are as yet unmet needs. In doing so, we seek to create a
continuing business that will ensure the Company’s growth and
investment in research and development and thus continue to
contribute to a healthier and safer society. At the same time,
we focus on working and acting responsibly with respect to the
world we live in. We aim to do this by:

Environmental policy
At Bavarian Nordic, we design our vaccine production facilities
and procedures so that there is no risk of viruses escaping into
the indoor or outdoor environment, not into via through the
air, our waste or our wastewater. We at Bavarian Nordic work
continually on improving our environmental efforts our efforts
to improve the environment and minimise our environmental
impact. Our aims are:

•	 manufacturing high-quality vaccines.
•	 working actively to minimise our impact on the environment
and climate.
•	 maintaining an active dialogue with our stakeholders – on a
local, national and global level.
•	 providing a safe and healthy working environment for our staff
that includes opportunities for professional and personal development.
•	 communicating our CSR policy to external collaboration partners, including our suppliers.

•	 to encourage environmentally aware behaviour and prevent
contamination and pollution throughout the Company
•	 to reduce our environmental impact by
	 •	developing and using processes that have a minimum of
environmental impact
	 •	optimising our utilisation of materials and energy
	 •	reducing emissions and waste
•	 to comply with environmental protection regulations and
relevant requirements
•	 to gradually build an environmental management system
based on the principles in the ISO 14001 standard
Health and safety
A safe and healthy working environment is important for
employee safety and satisfaction at the workplace. We always
comply with the applicable rules and regulations in this field
and focus on systematically mapping both physical and mental
working environment so that the necessary preventive steps can
be taken for the benefit of individual employees as well as the
Company as a whole. The aims of our general health and safety
policy are:
•	 to promote awareness of health- and safety-related behaviour
in all staff as part of their day-to-day work and work towards
proactive solutions to potential problems
•	 to gradually develop a management system to facilitate this
proactive safety work
Suppliers policy
We do not as yet have an actual suppliers policy on social responsibility. Instead, we have laid out a policy for the communication of our position on social responsibility to our suppliers.

	6	 Environment

Environment

The environment is important to us at Bavarian Nordic. When
we built our factory in the Danish town of Kvistgård in 2005, we
had a great deal of focus on reducing our environmental impact.
Since then, we have continually been working to minimise our
environmental impact and to actively incorporate environmental,
health and safety planning into our building projects.

Since our Kvistgård factory began operations in 2005, we have
published annual ‘green accounts’ containing environment-related
information that includes data on the Kvistgård facility's energy
and water consumption, emissions and waste. These green accounts are prepared in accordance with Danish law and can be
downloaded from the Bavarian Nordic website.

We implemented a number of environmental savings in 2010.
Among other things, we replaced an older, oversized steam
boiler with two smaller boilers better suited to the needs of our
production facility. A project to build a new process laboratory
has also begun: part of the planning involves looking at possible
water and energy savings in the larger-scale process equipment.
Relevant measures will be implemented as planning progresses.

We are also aware of the importance of maintaining a good
dialogue with our neighbours. When Bavarian Nordic established a presence in Kvistgård, we invited our neighbours to an
information meeting, just as our neighbours and the public in
general were involved through two consultation exercises held
in connection with the environmental assessment process. We
also completed several projects based on suggestions from our

Carbon footprint calculated for 2010 and 2009
				Mountain
	
Kvistgård	 Martinsried	Berlin	View	
Total
2010	2009	
2010	2009	
2010	
2010	
2009	 2010
Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2)	
Direct emissions			
Heating 	
Electricity generation	
Fugitive emissions	
Transport (motor vehicles)	

1,056	

881	

0	

0	

0	

20		

1***	
1***				2		
4	
6	 0	
0	0	0		
58	
60	14	
8	0	0		

Indirect emissions			
Electrical power, purchased	

1,379	 1,200	

Heating, purchased	

0	

0	

Cooling, purchased	

0	0	

Total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2)	 2,498	2,149	

338	

294	

158**	

10		

185	

180*	

156**	

0		

0	0	
537	 482	

0	
314	

0		
32	

2,631	3,381

tCO2: Tonnes of CO2 or equivalent gasses.
*	Heating was stated incorrectly in the 2009 statement, both with respect to consumption and emissions type (direct). The figures above have been corrected and thus deviate from the figures
stated in the 2009 report.
**	Part of the electrical power and heating consumption figure for Berlin is estimated: some of the rooms of this facility are part of a larger building used by several businesses, and heating and
power consumption is charged only indirectly, as part of the rent. An estimated total figure was, however, calculated based on metered energy consumption from the facility’s other building.
***	Estimate based on oil deliveries made every five years. This estimate was not included in the 2009 report.

		

neighbours. In our daily work, we are occasionally in contact with
our neighbours, especially in matters to do with noise, which is
what affects them most directly. Also because of this contact, we
are aware of the impact we can have in connection with both our
production and our construction projects.
We have decided to integrate parts of our green accounts into
our CSR report, and to that end have prepared a 'carbon footprint'
statement that specifies our greenhouse gas (carbon) emissions.
Carbon footprint
We have prepared carbon footprint statements for 2009 and
2010: a carbon footprint statement specifies the energy consumed by the Company and its emissions expressed in tonnes of
CO2 (tCO2), and it includes several GRI indicators.
In our 2009 statement, the carbon footprint was calculated only
for the Company’s largest facilities, i.e. Kvistgård and Martinsried.
The carbon footprint statement for 2010 includes two more: Berlin and Mountain View. These four facilities employ a total of just
over 98% of all Bavarian Nordic staff and presumably account for
most of the Group's energy consumption by far, as our other sites
are only small office facilities.
Table 1 shows the CO2 emissions calculated for Bavarian Nordic
for 2010 and 2009. Greenhouse gas emissions in 2010 totalled
approximately 3400 tonnes of CO2 versus roughly 2600 tonnes
in 2009. The increase is partly due to the fact that the Mountain
View and Berlin facilities are included in the 2010 calculations,
but it is also due to increases of 16% and 11% in emissions from
Kvistgård and Martinsried respectively. Kvistgård’s increase is
due to a slight rise in production, the start-up of a new quality
control laboratory, a larger number of staff employed, and more
electrical power used due to building activities. The increase at
Martinsried is the result of a few cold months at the beginning
and end of the year raising heating consumption as well as more
electrical equipment at the site.
The total emissions figure of 3400 tonnes of CO2 corresponds to
the emissions produced by roughly 260 Danish households3.

3

Environment 	 7

CO2 emissions are expected to rise further in 2011 as a result of
a planned increase in manufacturing activities, and production is
scheduled to expand by more than 100% over the course of the
year. We generally expect production to vary from year to year,
which is why our primary focus will be on reducing our relative
environmental and climate impact. As early as this year, we will
be taking a closer look at the relevant key figures to find a way
to measure our relative impact.
Since Kvistgård accounts for all the Company’s industrial production and much of its laboratory activities, it is also this facility
that contributes most to the Company's total carbon footprint.
The largest sources of emissions at the Kvistgård facility are its
electrical power consumption and its use of natural gas for heating. The power is used to run ventilation systems, a refrigeration
compressor, process equipment, refrigerators, freezers, air compressors, office equipment and lighting; the natural gas is used
for heating and steam production.
Goals
We set ourselves a goal for 2010 to include more of the Company’s facilities in our calculation of the Group’s CO2 emissions,
and we fulfilled this goal by including our Mountain View and
Berlin facilities in calculating our 2010 carbon footprint. The
remaining facilities – in Washington and Singapore – are small office facilities that account for less than 2% of the total Company
headcount. Their contribution to our carbon emissions total is
insignificant, and that is why we have decided to omit them
from our carbon footprint calculations, also in future.
We have used the data on which our carbon footprint calculations
are based to set a starting point for our climate impact, which
then allows us to set goals to reduce that impact. In coming
years, we will be working with our relative impact based on
relevant key figures.
We will in 2011-2014 endeavour to reduce our relative environmental and climate impact. More specifically, we will be able
to analyse our data in 2011 and determine certain relative key
figures on this basis.

A Danish household is estimated to produce about 13 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year, corresponding to 2.1
people with an average emissions level of 6.2 tonnes of CO2 annually.
Sources: Statistics Denmark and 'CO2 emissions in eco-societies', a project report by PÖYRY ENERGY CONSULTING dated July 2009

	8	 Employees

Employees
An organisation in a constant process of development, faces certain
demands. For this reason, we put a great deal of effort into forming
a shared corporate culture which includes building up systems for the
sharing of information and know-how.
In just a few years, Bavarian Nordic has transformed itself from
a purely research- and knowledge-based business into a business that today has its own manufacturing facilities. This process
brought with it both a major change in staff composition and
a significant increase in the number of employees. When an
organisation is in a constant process of development, as we are,
it faces certain demands. For this reason, we at Bavarian Nordic
put a great deal of effort into forming a shared corporate culture
which includes building up systems for the sharing of information
and know-how.
Since we have also maintained a flat management structure
over the years, the rising number of employees also means that
middle managers are responsible for larger groups of staff. For
this reason, we have been focusing on training primarily our
mid-level managers to prepare them for the new challenges they
face.
We are an innovative knowledge-based company, and it is crucial
that we are able to attract and retain highly qualified workers.
Also for this reason, we want to offer our staff a good working
environment that also provides them with development opportunities. There are plentiful opportunities at Bavarian Nordic, both
for development within a field of work by rotation between production, laboratory and office jobs or for development vertically
within the management hierarchy. As a result, we are happy to
recruit internally, and we focus on staff development potential in
our annual employee performance reviews.
At Bavarian Nordic we strive towards a good, healthy balance
between work and time off work. We work actively with stress,
emphasising awareness of stress indicators on a day-to-day
level as well as offering help to handle stress as needed. We
have been working actively for several years on dialogue-based
sickness absence management, ahead of legislative trends. We
generally achieve a quicker return to work by tackling each case
individually, also including an option to return to work part-time
at first.
All staff at Kvistgård are included in our corporate health insurance policy, which ensures fast and professional help and treatment at private hospitals and from psychologists, chiropractors,
physiotherapists, etc., should the need arise.

4

The accident rate is the number of accidents per million working hours

5

This figure was calculated for the entire Bavarian Nordic Group

Social activities are an important factor in a balanced work
life, which is why we focus on the social interactivity between
employees and employee groups. At Kvistgård, there is an active
staff association that regularly implements, with the backing of
management, new initiatives that cater for the various interests
employees may have.
A good, safe working environment
We must always ensure that Company employees can do their
jobs under safe and secure conditions, and we work continually
to optimise work safety.
The number of work-related accidents was down in 2010 from
both 2008 and 2009 levels, corresponding to an accident rate of
7.64 for the entire Group in 2010, versus a rate of 15.2 in 20095.
This is a substantially lower rate than the general accident rate
among Danish firms, which was 20.96 in 2009.
Only five work-related accidents were reported in 2010, compared with nine in 2009. Of these five, four occurred at Kvistgård
and one at Berlin. Three of the accidents were among production
workers, two of which were due to incorrect lifting technique.
The accident at the Berlin facility was a fall. In all cases, the accidents caused minor injuries that gave rise to less than a week’s
absence from work.
The Company’s occupational health and safety work varies to
comply with different countries’ regulatory requirements. At
Kvistgård, workplace assessments are used regularly to chart
health and safety factors, and relevant improvement initiatives
based on these assessments are put forward, prioritised and
translated into an action plan. In compliance with Danish regulations, a number of health and safety groups and one health and
safety committee are appointed that have both management
and worker representatives. Regular committee meetings are
held over the course of the year at which members follow up on
action plans in order to improve working conditions and safety.
The focus areas for Kvistgård in 2010 were regular health and
safety inspections, uncomfortable work positions in the production group, noise mapping plus a possible action plan, and
reducing work-related falls. These initiatives have either been
launched or completed. It should be noted that the number of

6

Confederation of Danish Industry, Arbejdsulykker ('Work-related accidents'), from
its 2009 company statistics

		

falls have dropped to zero at Kvistgård, which is due to special
efforts in this area. The fall incidents from 2009 were analysed
to find the cause of the accidents, and this resulted in various
preventive measures being taken, e.g. changing floor cleaning
agents. The noise problems were solved by moving staff from
the noisy rooms and using the rooms as something other than
office space.
Workplace assessments will be conducted at Kvistgård in 2011
and used to find relevant areas for action.
Goals
Our goal in 2010 was to continue to minimise the number of
work-related accidents through preventive measures, with a special focus on those areas in which most accidents happened.
The number of work-related accidents was down 44% in 2010
compared with the year before. A special focus on falling accidents at Kvistgård made it possible to cut the number of falls
to zero at this facility. As described above, this was achieved by
analysing the reasons behind the various fall incidents and then
implementing various measures based on this analysis.
We believe that the number of work-related accidents
has reached a minimum level now, and our goal for the
future is thus to maintain a correspondingly low level in
2011, knowing full well that this will require a special
effort. The year 2011 will see the introduction of a
relatively large number of new production staff,
so we are focused on providing a good training
programme for them to minimise the risk of
work-related accidents.

	Calculated as the total number of sick days divided by the number of fulltime employees

7

8

	 Includes employees at Kvistgård, Martinsried and Berlin
	Confederation of Danish Industry, Fraværsstatistik ('Absence statistics'), 2009

9

Employees 	 9

Absence
The total absence at Bavarian Nordic for 2010 was an average
of 10 days per employee7, corresponding to an absence rate of
4.6%8, which is on a par with the rate for 2009. The average
absence measured for the pharmaceutical industry in Denmark
is 6.6% (2009 figures)9. There was a significant drop in number
of sick days at our German locations, Berlin and Martinsried,
which was due to a drop in long-term illness of roughly 27%. This
drop was, however, offset by an increase in number of sick days
at Kvistgård, where a greater focus on registering absence has
resulted in more valid data.
Absence registration at the various Company locations is not yet
standardised across the Group, and in practice such records are
actually only kept at our European sites. In the United States, a
'paid-time-off' (PTO) scheme is used, which means that employees have the right to take a certain number of days off, including
sick days, without these days being recorded as sick days.

	10	 Employees

We are continuing to work towards implementing an effective
system and preparing uniform guidelines for absence registration at the various Group sites that do register it, but we are not
trying to include all the Company locations in this effort, as local
agreements – such as the PTO scheme in the USA – make this
impossible.
Goals
In our 2009 report, we set a goal for the next few years to
implement an effective system and draft uniform guidelines for
registering absence across the Group.
We began developing this system in 2010. Kvistgård started a
pilot project in its manufacturing section with the implementation of Shop Floor Control, an IT system that allows absence to
be registered directly in our ERP system10. We will be running
a corresponding pilot project in selected office units in 2011. If
these pilot projects are successful, the plan is first to implement
the system for the entire organisation at Kvistgård and then look
at how the system can be implemented throughout the Group,
also taking into account the specific legislation in effect in the
different countries.
Since we are still actively working on the project, and since it is
a project that will take some time to run, we are maintaining our
goal from 2009.
Personal and organisational development
Excellent opportunities for development are not alone vital
in ensuring the recruitment and retention of highly qualified
employees; they are also necessary if employees are to exploit
their full potential and thus ensure the competitive ability of the
Company.

	Enterprise Resource Planning

10

It is crucial that our employees have the necessary tools and
techniques to perform well in their jobs now and in future. Our
annual employee performance reviews are thus followed up on
and adjusted to meet current and actual needs. Naturally, we
comply with the strict requirements with respect to continuing
education and skills upgrading that stem from industry regulations, national laws and collective agreements, but we have no
set target number of hours of training per employee. Our goal is,
as a minimum, for our workers and managers to always have the
skills to look for and find their own job.
Goals
In our 2009 CSR report, we set ourselves the goal of looking
into the possibility of establishing a centralised system for the
registration of continuing training activities and qualifications
upgrades.
Against this backdrop, we are planning the launch of a pilot
project in 2011 to assess how we can best register and track continuing training and education using our ERP system. Once the
options and possibilities with respect to this system have been
determined, the project will be implemented in a small part of
the organisation to start with.

		

Suppliers 	 11

Suppliers

As an integrated element of Bavarian Nordic’s CSR policy, we
wish to lay down a number of guidelines for our collaboration
with raw materials suppliers.
In accordance with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and our
own current supplier management system, all raw materials suppliers will have to be audited before final supply contracts can be
signed. This allows us a unique opportunity to witness and also
have an impact on our suppliers’ involvement in and commitment to socially responsible activities.
One of our goals in 2010 was to set up assessment criteria for
our suppliers, and we analysed our main supplier data. Bavarian
Nordic primarily purchases raw materials from suppliers in North
America and the EU, and these countries have public regulatory
authorities that monitor social and environmental parameters.
Against this backdrop, we want to make social responsibility part
of the purchasing process by informing potential suppliers about
the Company’s values in our contracts through our CSR policies,
including our environmental, health and safety policies.
New potential suppliers will also be evaluated with
respect to their geographical location and thus risk, and
an assessment will be made as to whether any action
is necessary. It is our intention to carry out, in 2011,
a more thorough risk assessment of relevant and
important suppliers and to evaluate, on the basis
of fixed criteria, whether expanded efforts are
needed.
The above will be implemented in our systems
after determining the relevant procedures.

Goals
It was our intention in 2010 to set a goal for establishing a
system for evaluating raw materials suppliers on their social
responsibility, also taking into account environmental factors.
Work to establish this system began as early as in 2010 when
we, first, evaluated the risk of the various facilities relative to
their geographical locations and, second, began implementing
our social responsibility values in our contracts. Work to set up
this system will continue in 2011.

	12	 Auditor’s report

Auditor’s report
To the Group management of Bavarian Nordic A/S

We have performed a review of Bavarian Nordic’s report on corporate social responsibility 2010 (“the Report”). The purpose of
our review was to submit a statement here on. The management
of the company is responsible for the Report. Our responsibility is
to provide a conclusion based on our review of the Report.
The performed review
We have performed our review in accordance with the Danish auditing standard on assurance engagements (“RS 3000 Assurance
engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial
information”). It has been our purpose to obtain limited assurance that the data at Group level presented in the Report are in
accordance with the described reporting practice and information
reported to headquarters from production sites and other business units. By agreement we have reviewed data at Kvistgaard
on a sample basis, but we have not reviewed the data at other
production sites and business units.
Our review is based on an evaluation of risk of material errors.
We have evaluated the reporting practice and analyzed correlations with the company’s activities. The review is limited to first

of all include inquiries from management and employees as well
as analytical procedures, and a limited level of assurance is thus
lower than the assurance which would have been obtained if we
had performed an audit.
Conclusion
During our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us
to believe that the data at Group level overall are not in accordance with the described reporting principles and practice and
information reported from production sites and other business
units.
Copenhagen, 10th March 2011
Deloitte
Statsautoriseret Revisionsaktieselskab
Preben J. Sørensen
State-authorised Public Accountant

		

Reporting principles and practice 	13

Reporting principles and practice

This CSR report was prepared in accordance with Danish Financial
Statements Act requirements with respect to corporate social
responsibility reporting.
The report was inspired by parts of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI), a recognised framework for sustainability reports. The GRI
structure includes principles and indicators which we used to
measure and explain the Company’s financial, environmental and
social performance. We do not use the GRI as a checklist, but as
a continued source of inspiration in our reporting.
Our selection of the areas to be reported on was based on a
principle of materiality: we endeavour to include the most important ways in which the Company has an either direct or indirect
impact upon the world around it. Our manufacturing facilities are
one of the chief sources of our impact on the environment, and
by calculating our carbon footprint, which is included both in this
report and in our annually published green accounts, we strive
towards a high degree of transparency in reporting our environmental impact.
Our production operations and the activities derived from them
(e.g. quality control laboratories) are also the primary source
of our raw materials consumption, which is why we consider it
relevant to include them in this CSR report. Social responsibility aspects are not included in the already extensive audits we
conduct today, but we will be integrating this into our purchasing
process in 2011, through our contracts.
We included more of the Company's sites in our carbon footprint
calculation in 2010. With respect to absence registration, we are
currently working on an electronic solution that will in the long
term encompass as much of the Group as possible. However, we
will not be able to include our Mountain View and Washington
sites, as there are certain regulatory aspects which, as mentioned above, make it impossible to record worker absence data.
On the whole, the most important facilities are included, and
they account for the great majority of employees and by far the
greatest proportion of the total amount of energy consumed by
the Company.

	http://www.ghgprotocol.org

11

Carbon Footprint
Setting a starting point
Our carbon footprint calculations are based on the standard and
recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative11 for
calculating an organisation's total carbon emissions, which include the six greenhouse gasses addressed by the Kyoto Protocol
– CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF6 – calculated in tonnes of CO2
equivalents. Emissions sources are divided into three scopes: direct emissions from activities under the Company’s control (Scope
1), emissions from the consumption of electrical power (Scope
2) and indirect emissions from products and services (Scope 3).
According to the recommendations, organisations should report
on Scope 1 and Scope 2 as a minimum, and this is what we have
decided to do in our carbon footprint statement.
We calculated the total carbon emissions from our locations at
Kvistgård, Martinsried, Berlin and Mountain View with a view to
establishing a starting point for four different types of emissions:
Consumption of natural gas and oil
This figure is based primarily on current consumption as measured by monthly meter readings. Oil used for emergency generators, however, is estimated on the basis of oil consumption over
a five-year-period. Greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels are calculated on the basis of an average
emission factor.
Fugitive emissions
Fugitive emissions include CO2 from the use of dry ice and CO2
gas plus greenhouse gasses emissions from cooling and refrigeration systems.
Power consumption
Electrical power consumption is based on meter readings
recorded at the end of 2010. The calculation of greenhouse gas
emissions from electrical power consumption is based on specific
emission factors provided by the power company and an average
emission factor for the generation of power in Germany.

	14	 Reporting principles and practice

Mileage (km)
This figure is calculated on the basis of receipts from petrol
companies and includes motor vehicles both owned and leased
by the Company. Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the
basis of an average fuel-specific emission factor for ordinary cars
in Denmark and Germany.

Absence
Absence data for 2010 only cover Bavarian Nordic staff at our
Kvistgård, Martinsried and Berlin sites, and include registration
of staff sick days, child sick days, hospital visits and admissions,
and absence as a result of work-related accidents. Leave – also
maternity and paternity leave – is not included in these figures.

Emission factors
For calculating the CO2 emission, specific emission factors are
applied by type of emission and geographic location. The CO2
emission from combustion of natural gas, oil, petrol and diesel
and fugitive emissions are assessed as having a global effect
and only minor local differences. The emission factors from these
sources are based on data from the Danish Ministry of Climate
and Energy12. However the emission factor for natural gas from
the Mountain View facility is based on figures from The Pacific
Gas and Electric Company13, a supplier of natural gas and electricity in California.

The absence rate was calculated by taking the average annual
number of full-time employees times the number of working
days, divided by the number of total days of absence.

Emissions for locally-procured electricity have been determined
from local factors. Thus, emission factors for Kvistgård are based
on factors for Eastern Denmark14. The emission calculations for
electricity in Mountain View are based on emission factors from
The Pacific Gas and Electric Company15. The emission calculations
for electricity procured in Germany are based on general German
emisison factors16, whereas the emission calculations for district
heating procured in Germany are based on emission factors published by the German Heat & Power Association - AGFW - e. V.17

	"Klimakompasset"

12

	http://www.pge.com/myhome/environment/calculator/assumptions.shtml

13

	"Energinet", uafhængigt offentligt selskab under Energi- og Klimaministeriet

14

	http://www.pge.com/myhome/environment/calculator/assumptions.shtml

15

	Carbon Footprint Ltd. UK, britisk baseret Carbon Management konsulentvirksomhed

16

	AGFW, "Der Energieeffizienzverband für Wärme, Kälte und KWK e. V."

17

Accidents
Work-related accident data is for the entire Bavarian Nordic
Group; only accidents resulting in more than one day of absence
are included. The definition of 'work-related accident' in Danish
law is the definition applicable in this document. This means, for
example, that accidents occurring on the way to or from work are
not included in this report, although in Germany they are part of
the definition of work-related accident under German law.
The accident rate is calculated using the total number of working
hours of the Group for 2010 on the basis of the average annual
number of full-time employees times the number of annual
working hours. Holidays are not included. The 2010 figures have
been adjusted to correct for local differences in number of holidays and vacation days.

