Mandatory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility,
cf. the Danish Financial Statements Act, Section 99a
This mandatory report on corporate social responsibility for Brødrene A & O Johansen A/S
is part of the Management’s Review in the Annual Report for 2010 and covers the
accounting period from 1 January to 31 December 2010.
In all of our business activities, AO wants to comply with current legislation and
international conventions in the countries and communities where we operate.
We respect and comply with competition rules, environmental legislation, labour market
legislation, agreements and safety requirements, and other regulations that provide the
framework of how we conduct business. We want to be a responsible company that
supports the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, the
environment and anti-corruption.
Our suppliers are expected to adhere to the requirements of our Supplier Code of
Conduct. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is as an integral part of our supply
agreements, has been prepared to ensure that suppliers to AO exhibit the desired
responsibility. (Our Supplier Code of Conduct is available at AO.dk which is updated on a
regular basis).
AO makes certain purchases in China, where the company had its own purchasing
organisation until the end of 2010. As of January 2011, AO entered into an agreement with
the Irish company PCH International Ltd, which has established a purchasing organisation
in China with a staff of 300. The agreement implies that, in future, AO will use PHC’s
organisation to perform audits covering both business control and quality control of each
product. AO will, on an ongoing basis, check whether PHC’s standards meet the
requirements of AO’s Supplier Code of Conduct.
AO operates primarily in Denmark, and the greater part of our purchases is made in the
EU. Our employees are our greatest asset, and we have therefore chosen to focus on
work environment issues and the environment in general as the most important areas.
We have a working environment policy and an environmental policy focusing on the
continued improvement of the company’s performance.
Working environment
It is AO’s policy to constantly focus on competent and respectful management, motivation,
development/training and working environment, including
•

developing the skills of employees, so that their potential is being used, and their
value on the labour market is strengthened

•

providing a healthy and safe working environment with focus on the prevention of
accidents and injuries

•

working on diversity and equal opportunities for all staff, regardless of gender, age,
ethnic origin, religion, or the like through, among other things, a professional
recruitment process.

•

co-operating with a work environment consultant who acts as a sparring partner,
when work-related tasks have to be solved in the most optimal way

•

preparing a dynamic employment policy which interacts with the development of the
organisation and AO’s strategies. The employment policy reflects the overall
philosophy as well as specific guidelines and practices

•

having several applicable staff policies that directly affect the working environment,
among these, policies on health and safety at work, drugs and alcohol, ethics,
bullying and harassment

•

AO’s policies and practices relating to recruitment, pay, promotion, working
conditions, and skills development are meant to ensure that discrimination is
avoided, and that decisions are made on the basis of objective criteria.

AO has established an internal CSR committee comprising five members from several
functions of our business. In cooperation with the Executive Board, the committee ensures
that the principles, including the establishment and formalisation of necessary
procedures/polices, are adjusted and implemented at all levels of our business on an
ongoing basis.
The above-mentioned policies and actions are an integral part of our daily management
activities and culture. However, no specific measurements within each individual area will
be made, so achieved results cannot be described.
The environment
AO acknowledges that an active consideration for the environment is important, and
through our purchases, investments and other operations of the business we will help to
protect the environment. We focus on reducing the most significant environmental impacts
which we have assessed to be transport, waste, and energy and resource consumption.
Our environmental policy is available at the website AO.dk, which is updated on a regular
basis (in Danish only).
The following concrete actions concerning the environment need to be outlined:
•

Our administration and central warehouse in Albertslund and our logistics centre in
Horsens have been environmentally certified according to DS/EN ISO 14001. More
information about our environmental certification is available at AO.dk (only in
Danish).

•

A number of environmental initiatives have been launched in order to reduce the
consumption of electricity and paper and to collect consumables for recycling.

•

In 2010, a certification of the rental and service functions and the new warehouse
facilities at Herstedvang 6 in Albertslund was completed.

The company’s environmental management system is audited once a year and new
objectives are determined.
AO’s objective for 2010 was to recycle more than 60% its total waste. In 2010, AO
achieved to recycle 77% and 83% of its total waste at the central warehouse and at the
logistics centre, respectively.
The overall objectives for 2011 and 2012 regarding energy consumption are not yet
determined but will be linked to the implementation of the company’s mini-load system.

