Management report
Social Responsibility
Djurslands Bank is based on the set of values
printed on the back of the Annual Report, to which
reference is made.

flexible and individual contracts of employment –
including
flexitime
contracts
and
seniors’
contracts.

These
values,
together
with
the
Bank’s
environmental policy, are anchored in the Bank’s
ongoing work with social responsibility.

Local community
Through its value proposition “Local and visible”,
the Bank makes a targeted effort to support the
development of local communities at and in the
Aarhus region.

Clients
The Bank gives priority to a community principle
and personal dialogue with clients.
The Bank finds it important to have good
knowledge of the client and the client’s financial
situation, which includes the customer’s individual
needs and wishes as a basis for the Bank’s advice
and services.

The Bank’s focus over the years on operating a
financially health company ensures that the Bank
continues to be able to fund and support viable
businesses in the local communities, thereby also
supporting employment and the settling of new
residents.

The Bank’s local branches are the pivotal element
for personal, individual advisory services.

Djurslands Bank is part of the local community;
through
sponsorships
and
cooperation
agreements, we support local clubs in a broad
sense – in sports, culture and business
development.
In addition, the Bank supports local initiatives
through a broad range of cultural events and
activities offered to the Bank’s clients.

Systematic, ongoing surveys among the Bank’s
clients, as well as other market surveys, form the
basis for the Bank’s business development,
including its product range, branch network and
business policies.
Staff
The Bank gives high priority to human values; and
the Bank organisation is based on a team-oriented
working environment.

Through
their
personal
involvement
and
commitment, the Bank’s staff also contributes to
the business, culture, sports and politics – which
the Bank considers to be very natural and
essential to the development of society.

For measuring the working environment – and as
a basis for further development – job satisfaction
surveys are carried out among staff on a regular
basis.
The most recent survey in 2009 showed a general
satisfaction score of 6.2 on a scale of 1 to 7,
which is a high, satisfactory level compared with
other workplaces within and outside the financial
sector.
Since job satisfaction and motivation form the
basis of the Bank’s development, targeted efforts
are being made to further improve job
satisfaction.
In support of these efforts, the Bank has laid
down a set of management values, which can be
read at www.djurslandsbank.dk, and a new
satisfaction survey will be conducted in 2011.

The environment
The Bank’s environmental policy states, among
other things, that the Bank wishes to comply with
and support the development of Danish
environmental policy legislation.
As an enterprise, the Bank carries out its
environmental policy by complying with applicable
laws and regulations.
In addition, the Bank places substantial focus on
its own use of energy, technical equipment,
buildings and paper.
As a workplace, the Bank carries out its
environmental policy through its staff policy.
Reference is made to the section on staff.

Personal and professional development of the
Bank’s staff is an essential element in
implementing the Bank’s business strategy and
furthering its development.
The
Bank
works
with
systematic
skills
enhancement to ensure that the Bank’s clients are
offered high-quality advice and that the Bank’s
staff is dedicated and satisfied.

As a credit provider, the Bank carries out its
environmental policy through the Bank’s client
and credit policy.
When the Bank processes loan applications from
businesses, environmental aspects of the business
form a natural element and requirement in the
credit assessment.
The Bank helps private individuals and businesses
with loans for the purpose of installing environmental improvement features.
Some of this funding consists in passing on loans
from the Nordic Investment Bank for environmental improvements in transport, agriculture and
energy.

The Bank works on an ongoing basis with staff
health status and development.
The Bank offers each employee a health check, as
well as resulting advice and guidance. This was
done for the first time in 2008 repeated in 2010.
The Bank’s social responsibility forms an integral
part of the Bank’s staff policy, which includes

15

