6

Management’s review

A responsible player in society
(Account of corporate social responsibility – CSR)
Greentech is very much aware of its role as a player in society in a local, national and an international context. This
means that the Company will make targeted efforts to ensure that its core business area and activities are developed
in a financially, environmentally and socially responsible
manner by both complying with statutory requirements
and taking voluntary CSR initiatives in the countries and
communities in which Greentech operates.
t 5IFSFBSFOPTQFDJBMFOWJSPONFOUBMSJTLTJOWPMWFEXJUI
Greentech’s activities as the output from wind turbines
does not emit any hazardous particles or greenhouse
gases.
t (SFFOUFDITQSPKFDUTBSFTVCKFDUUPFOWJSPONFOUBMQFSmits, and at all project stages Greentech is governed by
comprehensive environmental legislation and rules
which, through mandatory surveys and analyses, serve
to safeguard the surroundings of the wind farms, ie
flora and fauna, local residents and the landscape.
t 5PUIFFYUFOUQPTTJCMF(SFFOUFDIUSJFTUPMJNJUUIFFOWJronmental impact of its business activities. Greentech
undertakes eg to replant trees and shrubs in corresponding areas if plantation needs to be removed for
the Company’s construction activities.
t "T(SFFOUFDITDPOTUSVDUJPOBDUJWJUJFTBSFPGUFODBSSJFE
out in areas that have a high rate of unemployment,
Greentech also contributes to ensuring growth in the local community through employment of local workers,
contractors and suppliers.

Greentech does not yet systematically work with voluntarily integrating corporate social responsibility as part of its
strategy and activities and, therefore, has not yet formulated any policies in this area.
In its considerations relating to CSR initiatives, Greentech
has so far sought inspiration in the UN Global Compact initiative for corporate social responsibility. Greentech will
continue to do so in the future but does not expect to formally join the initiative as the formal requirements for
membership are not compatible with the present size of
the Company’s organisation. However, the UN principles
on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anticorruption will form the framework on which Greentech’s
continued CSR efforts are based.
Thus, in future Greentech will voluntarily endeavour to expand its CSR efforts by integrating environmental and social aspects in its planning and decision-making processes.
These initiatives will be based on the CSR areas that are
the most relevant areas with respect to Greentech’s business goals as this is the best way in which Greentech can
contribute through relevant initiatives to the benefit of the
Company and its stakeholders.

