18

»

| Annual report 2009/2010 | Management's review

Management's review | Annual report 2009/2010 |

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ( CSR )
Social responsibility
It is in RTX Telecom a strongly integrated value to demonstrate social responsibility towards the Group’s partners, and
it is a central value that is integrated in both the implementation of the strategic objectives as well as the action plans.
In the financial year 2008/09 both Management and
employees went through a period with considerable changes.
As part of some cost– and structural adjustments in order to
secure the Company’s future growth, a number of employees
were made redundant. For those employees job search
programs were provided. Where possible the Group aims at
transferring the employee to other departments. The Management holds regular information meeting with the employees in
order to secure a high level of information within the Group.

RTX Telecom has only a few formulated policies within CSR,
but will in the coming years increase focus on establishing
formulated policies, objectives and procedures within the
Company’s voluntary work with social and environmental
aspects. Besides observance of the national and international
regulations RTX Telecom will through ongoing control, measuring and reporting demonstrate the responsibility that is an
integrated value in the Group, but which has not yet been
fully formalized in policies and measurements.
RTX Telecom supports the fundamental principles of UN’s
Global Compact on human rights, employees’ rights, child
labor, environment and anticorruption. RTX Telecom requires
that its suppliers respect and conform to the same principles.
Working environment
At the end of the financial year 2009/10, the RTX Telecom
Group employed 166 employees, of which 116 were employed
in Denmark, 45 in Hong Kong, 4 in the US and 1 in Brazil. RTX
Telecom strives to have an organization culture, where the
employees are offered motivating freedom to act and good
development opportunities in a professional international environment.

RTX Telecom’s staff policy has the objective to attract and
maintain highly qualified and motivated employees. RTX Telecom values a good working environment, and is regularly
measuring the employee satisfaction. A good working
environment and a high job satisfaction result in satisfied
employees, high efficiency, low staff turnover and a low level
of absence. These are all values that RTX Telecom can live up
to. RTX Telecom strives to be a professionally managed
company in all regards.
At the locations in Denmark and Hong Kong RTX Telecom
offers its employees benefits and facilities that are in accordance with local conditions. RTX Telecom has for its Danish
premises obtained The Danish Working Environment Service’s green smiley as a symbol of compliance with the
environmental regulations on a physical and psychical good
working environment. RTX Telecom continuously works with
specific action plans concerning the employees’ safety and
well-being.
For RTX Telecom it is important to be an attractive workplace
for all irrespective of sex, religion and ethnic background.
RTX Telecom has a formulated senior and handicap policy.
RTX Telecom has a flat and dynamic organization with a high

19

level of co-operation between functions and business units.
The Management is currently working on optimizing processes to ensure knowledge sharing and co-operation, and the
development processes have since 2002 been ISO certified.
Employees’ rights
No company in the RTX Telecom Group is a member of any
employers' association, but follows the industrial agreements.
Freedom of association applies for all employees in RTX Telecom.
External environment
RTX Telecom wishes to show responsibility towards the
en-vironment and to reduce the consumption of water, heat
and electricity. In 2009/10 RTX Telecom has implemented
electricity saving processes like ”Wake-on-LAN”. As a development company PC’s and software have an essential role
in RTX Telecom’s development department, and RTX Telecom
has consequently implemented an energy-saving setup.
RTX Telecom co-operates with a number of customers, who
are working on developing energy-saving processes and
technologies within ”Ultra Low Energy” (ULE). One of these
development projects is partly financed by Eurostars
(www.eurostars-eureka.eu).

»

20

»

| Annual report 2009/2010 | Management's review

Furthermore, RTX Telecom co-operates with sub-suppliers to
reduce material consumption and strain on the environment,
and RTX Telecom encourages its sub-suppliers to use environmentally acceptable raw materials and products, and requires
observation of directives settling the environment-friendly
production and handling of electronic equipment (RoHS,
REACH and WEEE directives).