ACTIVE INVOLVEMENT AND ENGAGEMENT
- SPAR NORD’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
FOCUS
SPAR NORD’S PRINCIPLES
•

•

•

•

•

Our active involvement and engagement are
business-driven - the measures we implement
must contribute to our business.
Our active involvement and engagement are the
sum of local initiatives - we work to give
something back to the local communities in
which we operate.
Our active involvement and engagement are
well considered - we operate and put the main
emphasis on one project at a time.
Our active involvement and engagement are
focused - we would rather do one thing with
single-minded purpose than two things halfway.
Our active involvement and engagement are
dynamic - we evolve and scale over time.

To focus our active involvement and engagement and make those
efforts tangible and measurable, we continually focus on special
aspects of active involvement and engagement in our business and
our social responsibility approach. We believe the best results are
obtained by focusing on one thing at a time. Consequently, our responsibility has evolved over time. This helps ensure that new actions rest on strong foundations and result in lasting improvements.

COOPERATION WITH THE SPAR NORD FOUNDATION
Besides choosing annual theme topics that are particularly targeted
in the relevant year, we also have other ways of focusing on issues
of relevance at Spar Nord. Each year, together with the Spar Nord
Foundation, we spotlight selected initiatives among our actions. For
example, the Foundation annually identifies lighthouse projects under the chosen theme topic and supports them financially. In this
way both good examples and good ideas are strengthened, and the
annual theme topics therefore have a lasting impact on Spar Nord’s
culture and business.

INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES
Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, is something we take seriously at Spar Nord. However, we prefer to translate this fashionable
term into our own language and reality because experience shows
that this produces better defined and more focused action.
At Spar Nord we have therefore grouped our initiatives and activities
relating to social responsibility under the heading of “Active involvement and engagement”.
Active involvement and engagement relate to very specific behaviour, not abstract principles. We believe that our responsibility as a
company and a financial institution is anchored in close involvement
with customers and the local community. A responsibility and an involvement that are embedded as given elements in our history and
culture and on which our business depends.
Active involvement and engagement imply a purely physical proximity and at the same time a receptiveness and attentiveness. Both
aspects are pivotal to Spar Nord. All our business builds on local
decision-making, local presence and active participation in the local
community. We also take pride in placing the customer first, thereby
showing active involvement and engagement in the advice we give.
And our attitude of active involvement and engagement also manifests itself internally. We listen to our employees and are not afraid
to publish the results in our Job Satisfaction & Performance Statement. We also listen to ourselves, continuously reflecting on our
market conduct and on where our involvement can best benefit both
the community and Spar Nord. Engagement, as an intrinsic part of
everything we do, is therefore one of our core values.

Spar Nord supports the Danish Government’s endeavours to put
Corporate Social Responsibility at the top of the agenda, and we also
support the intentions underpinning international initiatives like the
UN Global Compact and UN PRI. Nevertheless, we have chosen not
to formally commit ourselves to the two UN reporting initiatives.
This decision should be viewed in light of the fact that we already
endeavour to abide by the principles, and also that our activities are
very locally slanted. Thus, in our assessment we could put our resources to better use if we channel them into other activities than
spending them on reporting to the UN.

GENDER & CAREER
Since 2010, the theme topic “Gender & Career” has been the special focus area selected. This particular theme topic was chosen because people have discussed for decades how gender equality leads
to better business. Thus, the theme topic Gender & Career harmonizes with the ideal of business-driven social responsibility, its purpose being to promote gender equality, to maximize talent potential
regardless of gender, and to create an even better match between
the Bank’s customers and the staff and executives who advise them.
Spar Nord’s commercial target group consists of ordinary retail customers and local businesses. It is desirable therefore for the Bank to
have a broad composition at both non-executive and executive level.
In terms of gender this means that the Bank has an aim of being an
attractive workplace for both men and women, one where harmonious interaction exists between working life and private life.
Recognizing that the current reality does not match the Bank’s goals
and intentions, Spar Nord has launched a targeted action aimed at
increasing the number of women in executive positions. Gender &
Career has therefore been designated a joint action area for the
Group as a whole, and a theme under which both central and local
actions will be initiated.
Spar Nord | Annual Report 2010 | 46

Organization and responsibility
A project organization has been created at Group level to run the
Gender & Career project. Project responsibility has been assigned to
the HR Department and a working group has been set up. The working group will report to the joint consultative committee and consists
of executive and staff representatives drawn from various parts of
the Group (Executive Board, local banks, support and staffs), with
even gender distribution, large age span and wide geographical coverage.

Action areas
Highlights among the initiatives implemented in 2010:

Targets and follow-up initiatives
The purpose of the Gender & Career initiative is to improve Spar
Nord’s ability to activate the human and leadership resources within
its work force, and specifically therefore to ensure equal career opportunities in the Group for both sexes.

INVESTING WITH CARE

The overarching goal is to interest more women in an executive career with the Spar Nord Group. Another key objective is, for both
sexes, to improve the retention of executives by balancing career
with recreation and family life.
In concrete terms, the goal has been formulated thus:
• In 2011, there should be at least three qualified applicants for
executive positions at the Bank, and in 2012 there should be
at least five - at least one of which should be a woman.
• In the long term, the number of women attending the Pitstop
management course should be at least 50%.
In addition to these goals, we also continually follow the distribution
of gender at executive and mid-level executive level. We also carry
out job satisfaction and performance analyses, broken down by gender, in a number of specific areas:
•
•
•
•
•

Barriers to creating the desired career
Potential for creating good balance between work and family life
Benefit from staff performance appraisals
Feedback and follow-up from an employee’s immediate manager
Satisfaction with development potential

• Review of communication material
• Evaluation of job position profiles and recruitment procedures
• Establishment of mentor programmes targeted at female
managerial talents
• Integration of gender and career in staff performance appraisals
• Ph.D. project on gender and career

As a bank and an asset manager, our mission is to generate positive
returns for our customers. At the same time, our goal is to establish long-term customer relationships while acting with respectful
awareness of our surroundings. This also goes for the investment
area. Thus, the overarching goal is to generate sustainable value in
the long term.
A central building block of the market risk policy adopted by Spar
Nord Bank’s Supervisory Board in 2009 is that the Bank ”is exclusively interested in transactions that conform to good banking practice and do not jeopardize the Group’s reputation and professional
profile”. Thus, instead of having an outright mission statement,
Spar Nord’s Supervisory Board has adopted a dynamic wording that
reflects the intention to be in tune with market requirements and
expectations at all times. In light of the limited investment volume
– and Spar Nord Bank’s clout as an investor and owner – this approach is thought to be both sensible and relevant.
In practice, the market risk policy means that Spar Nord does not
invest in companies that breach international human rights and labour rights, or which in any other way are in conflict with applicable
standards of ethically and environmentally appropriate behaviour.
Thus, no organization that oversees investor actions on capital markets has ever levelled criticism against us.
As concerns the sale of investment products delivered by subcontractors – for instance unit trusts – the sustainability of the investments is addressed in the ongoing dialogue with the supplier.
As mentioned, Spar Nord has chosen to commit itself to the intentions stated in the UN’s principles for responsible investments (UN
PRI), but has not formally joined the reporting initiative, because the
Bank’s Management finds that the Bank’s resources can generate
more value elsewhere, considering Spar Nord’s relatively limited
investment footprint.

Spar Nord | Annual Report 2010 | 47

GRANTING CREDIT
With respect to the business relationships that the Bank wants to
establish, Spar Nord has the same clear ethical guidelines in the
credit-granting area as it does in the investment area. Spar Nord’s
credit policy statement specifies that the Bank is exclusively interested in transactions that conform with good banking practice and do
not jeopardize the Bank’s reputation and professional profile.
The Bank does not want to establish credit facilities with customers:
• whose origin and background are such that maintaining a business relationship with them may damage the Bank’s reputation
• who refuse to submit recent accounting material
• who have inflicted losses on the Bank in the past
• whose circumstances in general are such that maintaining a
business relationship with a particular company or business
might jeopardize the Bank’s reputation

EMPLOYEES
Spar Nord Bank’s most important business asset is a force of highly
skilled and satisfied employees who have excellent relations with
customers. We believe that employees who are professionally stimulated, are healthy and maintain a suitable balance between work,
leisure time and family life achieve the best results.
Consequently, it is our main priority to ensure our employees’ personal development, job satisfaction and health - both by taking initiatives at central level and by supporting local and personal initiatives. In addition, we aim for equal treatment and equal pay and want
to promote diversity among our employees and managers.

There are no precise data on the number of employees affected by
stress, but at Spar Nord the level of work absence due to sickness
has for many years been significantly below the sector average, the
most recent figure being 2.7% in 2009 against a sector average of
3.2%.

COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT
One of the chief action areas in the efforts to attract and retain
employees is the personal and professional development of the
Bank’s employees. The cornerstone of Spar Nord’s efforts to boost
competence development is the annual performance appraisal review, at which the employee’s individual training plan is discussed
and an agreement made on further action in training terms.
In addition to the performance appraisal review, all employees have
the option of an annual competence interview, during which the
employee’s professional, social and personal competences are discussed and a competence profile is prepared.
Since 1998, Spar Nord has worked determinedly to identify and develop talents and executive candidates from our own rank and file.
Efforts are structured in the so-called Pitstop programme, a twoyear development programme focusing on management and businessmanship. The objective of the programme is to develop and
retain potential mid-level executives and senior executives and thus
ensure that competent candidates for executive positions in the
Group are generally available in-house. We also want to ensure that
future executives will understand how to communicate the Bank’s
vision, values and strategy and are capable of translating strategy
into day-to-day operations. The training programme gives professional merits equivalent to a so-called pre-MBA.

WORK-LIFE BALANCE
Spar Nord’s commitment to ensuring a healthy balance between
work, recreation and family life for its employees has previously
been mentioned in connection with the theme topic “Gender & Career”.
Another important action area relating to positive working life is
stress prevention and stress management. Prevention of stress has
been a focus area at Spar Nord for many years, and in 2009 a new
initiative was launched entitled “Job satisfaction and stress”. Supported by a workbook, e-learning and staff performance appraisals
this initiative is intended to provide employee information on stress
and other imbalances. Also, it is intended to serve as a vehicle for
creating greater job satisfaction and promoting convergence between employee perceptions of “the good life (at work)” and life outside work

EMPLOYEE DATA

2009

2010

1.530

1.471

Of which women (%)

54

53

Of which men (%)

46

47

Average age

44,3

44,5

Seniority (average)

12,2

12,3

Employees (full-time)

Part-time employees (%)

22

18

Of which women (no.)

316

263

Of which men (no.)
Sickness absence
Competence development (days)
Competence development (DKK m)

15

14

2,9

2,7

8.600

5.700

15,6

8,5

The workbook includes definitions of what constitutes job satisfaction and stress, along with specific descriptions of some of the physical, mental, social and emotional consequences and symptoms of
stress. The list of symptoms can be used for self-assessment and as
a help in producing awareness of the behaviour of fellow employees.
At the same time, we stimulate a culture where stress and challenges are issues that can be freely discussed.
Spar Nord | Annual Report 2010 | 48

