Corporate social
responsibility

another significant step and launched phthalate-free
versions of the products AuraOnce, AuraStraight,
AuraFlex and Spur II, so that all laryngeal masks and
resuscitation bags are now phthalate-free.

Corporate social responsibility
Ambu takes a targeted approach to corporate social
responsibility (CSR) based on the strong belief that it
creates value for the company as well as for society if
Ambu takes responsibility through the way in which the
company operates and through its products. Read more
at www.ambu.com/CSR. In 2013/14, efforts have
focused on launching phthalate-free products, conduct
a global employee satisfaction survey as well as
revising our Code of Conduct for business partners.

End-of-life environmental profiles
In cooperation with external partners, Ambu has
prepared an end-of-life environmental profile for the
aScope 3 videoscope, which was launched in 2013.
Ambu is intending to use end-of-life environmental
profiles for more targeted communication about the
environmental impacts of the products when disposed
of. Also, the knowledge provided by the end-of-life
environmental profile is used to environmentally
optimise the future development of products.

Ambu’s CSR work is based on the principles set out in
the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Global Compact is a
set of internationally recognised principles which the
UN encourages businesses worldwide to live up to.

Business ethics and human rights
Ambu does not tolerate bribery and corruption. For this
reason, the implementation of the anti-bribery/anticorruption policy has included training for Ambu’s entire
management group.

Guidelines on Ambu’s CSR work
1. We work to promote diversity and nondiscrimination in employment.
2. We work for a safe and healthy work environment.
3. We prohibit the use of forced and child labour.
4. We support collaboration with educational
institutions.
5. We focus on reducing Ambu’s environmental
impact in our work on innovation and in the
production and distribution of our products.
6. We use materials efficiently, and strive to optimise
packaging and waste handling.
7. We work to reduce energy consumption.
8. We are committed to abide by the laws and
regulations of the countries in which we operate. In
the absence of adequate laws and regulations, we
refer to recognised international standards and
industry norms.
9. We do not accept bribery or other kinds of
corruption.

As mentioned in the annual report 2012/13, our Code of
Conduct has been extended to apply to both suppliers
and distributors, and this year it was revised further.
Ambu’s Code of Conduct for suppliers has been signed
by all A and B suppliers in Denmark, China and
Malaysia.
Employee satisfaction survey
In 2014, a global employee satisfaction survey was
conducted. The survey had a response rate of 90% and
has resulted in 229 local initiatives aimed at increasing
employee satisfaction. Some of these initiatives have
already been completed, and we will continue to follow
up on the remaining initiatives and on the general
development in employee satisfaction.
Collaboration with educational institutions
Ambu continues to work to strengthen its collaboration
with educational institutions. This has meant, among
other things, that Ambu has taken on more trainees,
interns and students for the benefit of both the company
and the students.

Organisation of CSR work
A CSR unit has been set up to work with CSR,
comprising employees from Marketing, HR and R&D.
The CSR unit reports to the Executive Management
Team and meets every quarter and on an ad-hoc basis
as and when required.

Initiatives in 2014/15
In the next financial year, focus will be on the following
initiatives:
continuing to replace classified phthalates with
environmentally friendly alternatives in the
remaining products;
evaluating
experience
with
end-of-LIFE
environmental profiles to decide whether they
should be developed for newly developed singleuse products in future;
collecting climate data from our production units
with a view to establishing a baseline for future
climate goals;
continuing the collaboration with educational
institutions.

Ambu’s CSR work in 2013/14
Below follows a description of the initiatives mentioned
in the latest annual report. Information is also provided
on the results achieved by Ambu in 2013/14.
Phthalate-free products
Ambu is dedicated to ensuring that our products are as
safe for the environment and for patients and
healthcare professionals as at all possible. With the
phthalate policy, which came into force last year, Ambu
undertakes to replace classified phthalates in all
products before the end of 2017. In 2014, Ambu took

24

