CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Statutory Statement cf. section 99a
of the Danish Company Accounts Act
Corporate social responsibility has always been very
important for Arkil with its goal to deliver services of a
high quality, maintaining good and long-lasting customer
and supplier relations, retaining motivated and skilful employees and living in harmony with the local environment
And in the light of the stricter requirements from customers, clients and other stakeholders as regards responsibility,
orderliness and decency, sustainability – both socially and
financially – is a still more important parameter for the
group’s company mission, development and operations.
The corporate social responsibility work is based on
Arkil’s formulated CSR policy and is rooted in the Group
Values. We comply with all legislation, rules and regulations, no matter where we are. Our focus is targeted at
climate, environmental and work related conditions, and
we embrace the United Nations Global Compact initiative. This means that respecting human rights, employee
rights and zero tolerance as to corruption and bribery is
a fully integrated part of our code of business principles,
which can be found on our website.

Arkil’s CSR Policy
In Arkil, we recognise and acknowledge our corporate
responsibility and contribute to the society we are part
of – no matter where we operate. This is done through
our Group CSR Policy, which are formulated around four
key areas:

Ensuring decent working conditions and a safe
workplace for our employees
Arkil will not contribute to social dumping or exploitation. Arkil employees enjoy decent pay conditions and
terms of employment that are all in compliance with
collective agreements and applicable law. We also require
that our workplace safety is top-of-the-line, and Arkil
not only complies with working environment laws – it is
our declared goal to be a leader in terms of safety for our
employees.

promoting energy efficiency initiatives in the Group’s
activities. Arkil also takes active part in experiments
with reusing/recycling materials such as construction
materials, incineration slag and asphalt in our projects.
As part of our daily business, we also research and
develop advanced environmental solutions and methods
to prevent and clean up pollution caused by others.

Guaranteeing
Our clients should be confident that we always live up to
our responsibility towards society in every aspect, and in
order to achieve this we will actively and to the widest
extent possible follow up on and commit our working
partners and subcontractors to our CSR policy.

Human rights
Arkil does not have a separate human rights policy,
but the group’s code of business principles include the
requirement that all suppliers support and respect the
human rights acknowledged on an international basis.
Non-compliance will result in the termination of any
collaboration with such supplier. (Please see Code of
Business Principles on arkil.dk, which are updated on
an ongoing basis).

Knowledge, qualifications and education
In 2014, Arkil employed 1,789 people, 419 of whom were
administrative staff. Of these, 245 have an engineering/
technical background. Having the right employees with
the right skills and qualifications are crucial prerequisites
in order to be able to deliver ”Quality On Time” and
achieve Arkil’s strategic goals.
Arkil has a dedicated and stable workforce with a high
level of expert knowledge of the Group’s business areas.
The level of knowledge of the employees and their
continued ability to add value to our customers’ projects
represent a significant competitive advantage, in which
we invest considerable educational resources to ensure
and develop.

Arkil employs a relatively large number of people without
any particular educational qualifications. Arkil recognises
that it is in the interest of both the company, the employees and society that the prospects for this job group
are taken properly care of. Therefore, it is the Group’s
policy to train e.g. building apprentices and asphalters
concurrently with our activities and also to carry out
supplementary training courses for all staff groups.

Therefore, Arkil has implemented a structured HR
approach, which is to increase the recruitment base
through an active personnel and education policy,
which is constantly to expand the employee base’s
competence and level of knowledge through external
and internal courses. The increasing specialisation and
internationalisation of Arkil’s activities make these
activities key to attracting and retaining, as well as providing further education to the most skilled employees
in the contracting industry.

Investing in the best solutions

Activities and results in 2014

Arkil intends to work to prevent pollution in every way
possible by investing in energy efficient solutions and

In 2014, our focus has been on the apprentice area,
as well as further development of the frameworks for

Educating our employees

25

management education. In addition, we have focused on
the introduction of educational aids to support efficiency
and quality.
Arkil has a tradition of training many skilled apprentices.
At the end of 2014, Arkil had 53 construction and paving
apprentices and 11 apprentices working as machine
operator, road asphalt, driver, mechanic, and office
apprentices, which is at the same level as last year and
maintains the share of apprentices at about 10% in the
relevant departments that are training them. This is one
of the highest levels in the industry.
Arkil works on improving the apprentice training on an
on-going basis through, among other things, follow-up
and feedback. The evaluation from 2014 shows that
in 2014, the apprentices were very satisfied with their
training programme and they explain that the quality
of the labour that was provided is increasing. In 2014,
16 apprentices finished their training at Arkil. Eleven of
them passed their apprenticeship tests with praise or a
medal, which shows that the structured training efforts
and mentor programme that Arkil offers result in skilled
apprentices. All this contributes to the reasons why a
large number of the apprentices continue working at
Arkil after completing their apprenticeship.
Arkil conducts training of the personnel who are paid by
the hour on an on-going basis to strengthen the individuals’ competences related to the needs of the Group.
At salaried employee level, Arkil Academy re-evaluated
its activities in 2014. A new management-training
programme will be developed, which is to ensure
on-going upgrading of competences at both operational
and strategic levels.
Finally, in 2014, Arkil continued to roll out e-learning
as a cross-disciplinary and geographic tool for achieving
increased training volume and create focus on safety and
the working environment in the organisation.

Goals for 2015
In 2015, our training efforts will focus on further
systematisation of Arkil’s HR activities. This is partly to
ensure continuous maintenance and upgrading of the
employees’ competences and partly to make it possible
to gather more data so that the programmes can be
evaluated in the best possible manner.
We will also continue to upgrade reading and writing
competences of employees who want this – partly to
strengthen professional competences and partly to ensure
a better working environment and increased efficiency.
Our growth goals require that we have more employees
at Arkil. Therefore, in 2015, we will intensify our recruit-

ment efforts in order to attract more of the most highly
skilled employees in the contracting industry.

Environmental and climate conditions
The Group’s policies in the area of the environment
and climate must ensure that we constantly improve
our environmental efforts within the framework of the
technical and financial possibilities.
Arkil’s asphalt activities are certified according to the
quality standard ISO 9001, the environmental standard
ISO 14001 and the working environment standard
OHSAS 18001. In addition, all of our asphalt products
are CE labelled in accordance with DS/EN 13108. The
environmental management system is described in a
manual that covers the three ISO standards and the
product standard DS/EN 13108. Arkil’s other divisions
have developed their own environmental management
systems based on the knowledge and experience of the
Asphalt division.
The effort for a better environment and larger sustainability takes place on an on-going basis in relation to
customers, production and services in connection with
product development as well as in relation to the Group’s
own direct external impacts on the environment and the
climate. No report has been prepared on the total result
of the activities that were carried out because reliable
measurements of this cannot be made.

Activities in 2014
Arkil has focus on increased reuse of raw materials and
reduction of energy consumption to the benefit of the
environment. Thus, recycling plants have been installed
at all of the Group’s 100% owned asphalt plants in
Denmark and Germany, which have an average production of at least 40,000 tonnes per year.
Increased use of recycled materials in the products
contributes to reducing the consumption of oil products
and stone materials etc. The use of recycled material in
the products is, to a certain extent, determined by the
product range of the orders that are won, as well as the
customers’ production specifications.
Investment in better warehouse facilities at the asphalt
plants is made on an on-going basis; these being in
the form of covered storage spaces for storing recycled
materials and raw materials for the asphalt production,
so that the materials can be kept dry. The use of dry
materials in production contributes to significant reductions in energy consumption.

Goals for 2015
Arkil continuously works on initiatives and matters,
which can contribute to reducing the total environmental

26

impact by minimising fuel consumption. When replacing
or purchasing machinery, energy consumption should be
considered as a key parameter when selecting machinery
brand.
As part of the production planning of construction
projects, there is also a focus on optimising energy
consumption. There is also a great focus on the driving
patterns of the machine operators, because considerable
savings can be achieved when applying an optimal
driving pattern.

Working environment and conditions
The overall goal for Arkil’s working environment is to
reduce the number of work accidents and ensure that
no employees are exposed to greater risks than can be
justified when using our best insight and knowledge.
We try to realise this through a high prioritisation on the
part of management of the working environment and
safety, and through on-going training and follow-up
to prevent and avoid accidents. The active efforts to
promote a good working environment and a culture
of safety awareness are carried out by Arkil’s working
environment organisation.

Activities in 2014
One of Arkil’s goals is to be one of the safest workplaces
of its kind. This means that the accident frequency must
be reduced to 15 in 2015, from 21.8 in 2013, and that the
number of days of absence due to accidents must be reduced
significantly.
In order to achieve the goal in 2014, Arkil started the
development of a new management system to standardise
the environmental policy and support the rolling out of a
seven-pronged action plan. The focus areas of the plan are
the following:
n Mapping out and measuring the working environment for
projects over DKK 5 million Risk assessments, procedures,
checks, information meetings and instructions are reviewed
and reported centrally on an on-going basis. A key element,
also for developers, who make increasing requirements for
documentation of quality from the contractor – not least for
turnkey contracts.
n Communication and dialogue Increased communication
about the working environment and safety must create a
focus by all employees on exhibiting consideration and
promoting safe behaviour with regard to best practice.
This included producing four newsletters in 2014 regarding initiatives, legislation, etc. within the areas of quality,

Quarry in Ireland

27

n

n

n

n

n

the environment and working environment, as well
as near accidents, including selected episodes, their
consequences and future preventive activities.
Training throughout the entire organisation An
internal training programme on the working environment and safety for all Arkil employees, depending on
areas of responsibility, including e-learning. In 2014,
as previously, working environment and safetyrelated courses were held. A total of 131 employees
completed such courses in 2014.
Incentive model Rewarding the department with the
best performance with regard to reducing accident
frequency and increasing the reporting of near
accidents to create a focus on safety.
Reduction of days of absence Goals and guidelines
for employees and foremen on how injured employees
can get back to work quickly after an accident.
Learning from work accidents Careful accident
analysis as the basis for carrying out changes that can
increase safety.
Health and safety committee Greater focus on the
health and safety committee as a tool for ensuring
development, prevention, investigation and corrective
actions. In 2014, Arkil trained and assigned approximately 100 new health and safety representatives and
health and safety managers so that the number today
is higher than ever before.

At the end of 2014, it can be concluded that the results
materialise as expected. The number of work accidents at
Arkil requiring notification in 2014 was 34, corresponding to a frequency of 17.1, which is a clear improvement
compared to last year.

Ac c ide n t fre qu e n c y 2010 – 2014
Accident frequency is calculated as the number
of accidents per 1 million man-hours worked.

35
30
35
25
30
20
25
15
20
10
15
5
10
0
5

2010
n Arkil

2011

2012

2013

2014

n Entire industry

0
Wo rk a bs e n c e 2010 – 2014
5

4
5

Absence is calculated as the number of hours lost
per 1000 man-hours worked

3
4
2
3
1
2
0
1

The absence frequency also dropped from 4.6 hours of
absence for every 1,000 work hours in 2013 compared
to 3.7 hours of absence for every 1,000 work hours in
2014. In addition to a general improvement, the strong
reduction can also be attributed to the fact that, in
2013, there were few isolated cases of employees with
long-term illness.

Goals for 2015

The development in absence due to illness is carefully
followed in Arkil and the prevention of absence due to
illness has a high priority in the HR department. In 2014,
absence due to illness comprised 3.90% compared to
3.76% last year.

In 2015 and onwards, the health and safety organisation
will continue to focus on carrying out the seven-pronged
plan, which is to further reduce accident frequency and
absence due to accidents. In addition, attention will be
given to the psychological working environment, including the occurrence of stress among Arkil employees.

0

2010
n Arkil

2011

2012

2013

2014

n Entire industry

28

