BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

CSR 2014/15. 1

This report is Bang & Olufsen’s legally required statement for Corporate Social Responsibility, cf. Financial Statements
Act §99a. An extract can be found in the Bang & Olufsen Annual Report 2014/15.

Contents
Contents ....................................................................... 2

1. Materials............................................................... 4

CSR in Bang & Olufsen ................................................ 2

2. Manufacturing ...................................................... 4

Bang & Olufsen’s CSR policy ....................................... 3

3. Transportation ...................................................... 7

Human Rights .......................................................... 3

4. Use ....................................................................... 7

Employee Rights ...................................................... 3

5. Disposal ............................................................... 8

Anti-Corruption ......................................................... 3

A case in point - BeoSound Moment ............................ 9

Environment and Climate......................................... 3

CSR results in the 2014/15 financial year ................... 10

CSR work and results in 2014/15 ................................. 4

Planned CSR activities and objectives in 2015/16 ...... 10

CSR in Bang & Olufsen

The CSR policy is supported by Bang & Olufsen's Code
of Conduct, which contains the company’s CSR
requirements to suppliers. External audits of the
suppliers, as well as their sub-suppliers, are carried out
when there is a concrete suspicion of breach of the
Code of Conduct.

The Bang & Olufsen logo is a quality guarantee as it
has been since the company was established in 1925.
This is not only related to delivering products of high
quality to the customers, but also related to the way the
business is run.
Bang & Olufsen recognises the UN and ILO
declarations regarding human rights, labour rights,
environment and anti-corruption and has therefore
chosen to structure the CSR work, including the CSR
policy, in accordance with the UN Global Compact
guidelines.
Bang & Olufsen works systematically with CSR, and is
certified in accordance with ISO 9001 (quality
management), TS16949 (technical standard for quality
within the automotive industry), ISO 14.001
(environmental management) and OHSAS 18.001
(work environment management). The management
systems contribute to ensure that the efforts are
concentrated in the areas with main potential for
improvement.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Bang & Olufsen's procurement department has a set of
moral and ethics guidelines, which include internal anticorruption guidelines for e.g. gift exchange, negotiation
principles and handling of conflicts of interest. The
internal anti-corruption guidelines have been extended
to include the sales organisation, which is especially
relevant for new markets where Bang & Olufsen is
currently expanding the business.
To support the guidelines, Bang & Olufsen has set up a
whistle-blower function, which is an externally run
hotline to which the employees anonymously can report
unethical behaviour.

CSR 2014/15. 2

Bang & Olufsen’s CSR policy
Bang & Olufsen’s CSR policy states the guidelines for
the Corporate Social Responsibility activities within the
framework of the Bang & Olufsen Group.
Bang & Olufsen aims to ensure compliance both within
its own organization as well as for partners and
suppliers.

Human Rights
Bang & Olufsen aims, in all matters within the Group's
control, to support and respect the protection of
internationally proclaimed human rights.

Employee Rights
Bang & Olufsen aims to show the greatest degree of
social responsibility towards our employees. Bang &
Olufsen supports the abolition of child labour and forced
labour, and condemns discrimination in employment
and occupation.
Bang & Olufsen attaches great importance to freedom
of association and recognizes the right to collective
bargaining. Bang & Olufsen aims to be a tolerant
workplace where each employee thrives and has the
possibility to develop and create a good work-life
balance.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Anti-Corruption
Bang & Olufsen strongly disassociates itself from all
kinds of corruption, including extortion and bribery.

Environment and Climate
Bang & Olufsen has an integrated thinking with regard
to the environmental consequences our production and
products have on our employees, customers and
surroundings. We use the word "environment" broadly
to cover the disciplines of work environment, product
environment and external environment.
As a responsible company Bang & Olufsen aims to
create sustainable products. The considerations
involved in the operation, design, and longevity of our
products must be in mutual balance with the
environmental impact of production. Bang & Olufsen
complies with existing legislation in the countries where
we produce and sell our products.
More specifically, we aim to focus on the areas where
the right balance between effort and impact can be
achieved:

Improve the work environment and the health and
safety conditions of our employees

Prevent work related illnesses and/or injuries

Improve and prevent negative environmental
impact from our production and products including
reduction of climate impact.

CSR 2014/15. 3

CSR work and results in 2014/15
Bang & Olufsen works with Corporate Social
Responsibility within the framework of the product lifecycle, as the environment is considered a closed lifecycle, where waste is a resource, which can be
recycled in new products.

1. Materials

5. Disposal

4. Use

2. Manufacturing

3. Transportation

comply to. At the same time, the direct suppliers
guarantee, that their sub-suppliers comply with the
same guidelines and demands. Once a year a risk
analysis is made of Bang & Olufsen’s suppliers and the
efforts are hereafter focused on suppliers with a high
risk of violating the Code of Conduct. These suppliers
are subsequently audited, to uncover the possibilities
for improving the conditions. During the 2014/15
financial year, four audits were conducted and followed
up, and for 2015/16 two to five new audits are
expected.
The work with responsible supplier management is a
continuous process. The intention is therefore not to
use the Code of Conduct to terminate the cooperation
with the supplier if an audit reveals critical deviations.
Instead the company will initiate cooperation on action
plans to improve the supplier’s environmental and
social standards.

2. Manufacturing
1. Materials
The Bang & Olufsen design is timeless and includes
simple and genuine materials, which have recyclability
potential. Bang & Olufsen commits to continuously
update software on the consumers’ products, which
allows the Bang & Olufsen products to be long-lasting.
In addition, there is still a large demand for older Bang
& Olufsen products, and the market for used Bang &
Olufsen products is relatively large, which contributes to
strengthening the Bang & Olufsen brand as attractive
high-quality products with a long lifetime.
1.1 Responsible supplier management
Bang & Olufsen makes an active effort to ensure that
no suppliers use child labour, forced labour or
unnecessarily overload the environment to produce
Bang & Olufsen products or components. The agent in
this relation is called responsible supplier management,
which Bang & Olufsen started to use 10 years ago.
As part of the work with responsible supplier
management Bang & Olufsen has set up a Code of
Conduct, which the company’s values in central areas
such as environment and climate, human rights, labour
rights and anti- corruption are explained to suppliers.
Bang & Olufsen's Code of Conduct partly builds on the
ten principles in the UN Global Compact and partly on
the UN conventions on human rights.

The production and the environmental impact is a
particularly important CSR focus point for Bang &
Olufsen. It is divided into product-, work-, and external
environment.

Product environment is the environmental
conditions that are attached to the company’s
products (e.g. energy consumption in the use
phase).

Work environment is the health and safety
conditions under which the employees work.

External environment is the environmental
conditions that are related to the company’s own
production, (e.g. raw material usage, electricity
consumption, heat consumption, water
consumption and waste).
Bang & Olufsen’s Danish activities have been
environmentally certified (ISO 14.001) and the working
environment certified (OHSAS 18.001) since 2010. The
audit conclusion from the certifying body was:
“Generally speaking we are enthusiastic for what we
see out in the areas. There is a broad environmental
awareness among managers, employees and the
environmental organisation.”
No non-conformities were raised during the audit in
March 2015.

All direct suppliers to Bang & Olufsen must sign the
Code of Conduct and thereby accept the requirements
that Bang & Olufsen expects the individual suppliers to

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

CSR 2014/15. 4

In 2014/15 Bang & Olufsen had particular focus on
ergonomic and heavy lift in the early phase of our
product production. New lifting equipment was
developed and implemented in the development
department and the installation videos show how heavy
products can be handled by lifting and in an ergonomic
way.
To ensure Bang & Olufsen is a good and attractive
company to work for, it is essential that the employees
thrive in their job, work with interesting and challenging
tasks, and that management also provides guidance
and support when needed.
2.1 Product environment
Sustainable product design is essential for meeting the
objectives of a sustainable future, where resource
efficiency and zero-waste policies are on top of the
global environmental policy agenda.
Sustainable design features can extend the products
life time and “design for re-use” takes into account the
disposal of the products by using simple materials with
high recycling potential. Sustainable design features in
Bang & Olufsen’s products help the consumers to
separate themselves from the take-make-dispose
culture.
Bang & Olufsen has a list of undesirable substances.
Substances on this list are legal to use but are under
suspicion of being harmful. Therefore, Bang & Olufsen
has chosen to phase them out. For instance, Bang &
Olufsen prohibited the use of all brominated flameretardants already in the 1990’s, but only in 2006 did
two types these become banned by European
regulation. Moreover, Bang & Olufsen began to phase
out phthalates in wires that comes into prolonged
contact with the skin in 2007. Today all Bang & Olufsen
headphones are phthalate-free.

2.2 Work environment
Bang & Olufsen puts great emphasis on creating a safe
and healthy work environment for the employees with
focus on improving both the physical and psychological
work environment. The objective is to make every day
work life healthier and to encourage the employees to
share the responsibility for their own health and safety.
The work environment is considered already in the
product design and development phase as choices in
the early product development phases often have great
influence on the work environment in the production
phase – e.g. in the form of choice of material, assembly
methods and choice of surface treatment.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Bang & Olufsen has defined roles, responsibilities and
activities for each group of employees. Managers and
employees are trained in how to handle a colleague or
an employee, who is not feeling well.
Policy on the promotion of well-being and stress
management among our employees

Bang & Olufsen endeavours to provide a healthy
psychological work environment in which
employees thrive

Bang & Olufsen wants to strengthen the factors
that promote the satisfaction, motivation and
commitment of our employees

Bang & Olufsen considers stress a serious issue

Bang & Olufsen recognises that there are many
factors that can affect the general well-being of an
employee, and that work-related and personal
factors can all play a part. We will therefore raise
awareness among managers, employees,
and colleagues alike and make a plan of action and
a "toolbox" available for the promotion of wellbeing, and the prevention and management of
stress.
The number of injuries with absence during the financial
year split in white-collar and blue-collar workers is
detailed in the graph below. The graph also shows the
frequency (number of accidents per 1 million working
hours) and the severity (number of hours of absence
per 1,000 working hours) of the industrial injuries.

Work environment 2014/15

Frequency
Severity

Target

Actual

<2

3.5

<0.095

0.214

CSR 2014/15. 5

16

0.800

14

0.700

12

0.600

10

0.500

8

0.400

6

0.300

4

0.200

2

0.100

0

0.000



Severity

Number of accidents

Figure 1: Accidents, frequency and severity

2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Blue-collar worker

White-collar worker

Frequency

Severity (RHS)

Figure 1: The graph shows the development in the number of accidents
and the frequency (number of accidents per 1 million working hours)
and the severity (number of hours of absence per 1,000 working hours)

During the 2014/15 financial year Bang & Olufsen had
11 cases of work related injuries (4 in the Czech
Republic and 7 in Denmark), which resulted in absence.
The number of days of absence resulting from
accidents has generally been low (1 to 4 days).
However, one accident in Denmark and three accidents
in the Czech Republic have resulted in 14 - 31 days of
absence. All four have had a significant negative effect
on the overall severity.

Accidents analysis

90 per cent of all accidents occur in the production
in Denmark and the Czech Republic, which is
therefore also the key focus areas.

90 per cent of all accidents are caused by
individual carelessness and wrong attitude and not
caused by lack of safety equipment

50 per cent of all accidents are caused where
people cut themselves on product items or fall as a
result of jumping or slipping on the floor

Workshop for all managers in the Danish
production, which will be cascaded by managers
through similar session to the employees. The goal
is to evaluate the department for risks with focus on
sharp items, risk of falling and individual
carelessness and wrong attitude

Besides ongoing initiatives, actions and target for
2015/16 have been set to reduce the number of
accidents.

2.3 External environment
Bang & Olufsen seeks to keep pollution as well as
nuisance to neighbours from the company’s activities to
an absolute minimum. Therefore, there is continuous
focus and follow up on new projects and existing
buildings and activities. The company always enters
into dialogue with the regulatory authorities with an aim
to find the best solutions and thereby minimising
pollution as much as possible.
Environmental approval under Part 5 of the Danish
Environmental Protection Act (Miljøbeskyttelsesloven)
is required for one Bang & Olufsen factory, which is
located in Struer. The environmental approval relates to
the surface treatment and mechanical processing of
aluminium. A licence has also been granted to
discharge process waste water to a purification plant
attached to the factory.
No environmental accidents occurred in the financial
year 2014/15, nor did Bang & Olufsen receive any
complaints from neighbours.
Conclusion on the environmental inspection in 2014/15
from the local authority:
”Bang & Olufsen works diligently with environmental
conditions and complies with the demands, which are
written in the company’s environmental approval”

To address the number of accidents in 2014/15, we
have conducted a thorough accident analysis and
based on the results set up additional activities to
reduce the number of work related injuries:

Bang & Olufsen seeks to be a sustainable company
and has therefore set common goal for energy
consumption in the production in Denmark and the
Czech Republic. The total energy consumption and the
key performance indicator can been seen below.



Energy consumption 2014/15

Safety walk in the production in Denmark and in
the Czech Republic. The manager tours the
production to engage in a dialogue with employees
regarding safety and health. The intention is to
focus on right and wrong conduct, and to provide
clear leadership and management focus and
commitment towards health and safety issues.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Energy
Consumption

Target

Actual

<0.34

0.35

Note: KPI (kWh/earned wages)

CSR 2014/15. 6

Figure 2: Energy Consumption
40,000
0.41

30,000

0.40

0.40
0.37

0.350.35
0.34

mWh

25,000

0.30

0.25
20,000
0.20
15,000

0.15

10,000

0.10

5,000

0.05

0

0.00

Heating (MWH)

Electricity (MWH)

Key Performance Indicator

35,000

Insufficient packaging will damage the product and
excessive packaging is an environmental problem.

0.45

KPI

Figure 2: Total energy consumption in MWh split by electricity and heat
and KPI (kWh/earned wages)

The environmental KPI increased by 0.8 per cent in the
2014/15 financial year compared to 2013/14, and came
in 1.5% per cent above the target. The following
activities have been initiated during the financial year:
•
A generator has been switched off, resulting in a
saving of 44,000 kWh per year.
•
Five transformers have been disconnected,
resulting in a saving of 50,000 kWh a year.
•
Luminous discharge lamps in elevators have been
changed to LED resulting in a saving of 2,000 kWh
a year.
•
Behavior related such as regulating temperature
limit in winter and summer, air leak repair, lowering
of temperature of water in boilers and switching off
lines/areas when finished.
The energy consumption has declined by 24 per cent
during the last 5 years, corresponding to a 28 per cent
CO2 a reduction of (3,396 tons CO2)
Over the last eight years, Bang & Olufsen has reported
to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which on behalf of a
number of investors collects information about the
efforts of listed companies in relation to reduction of
CO2 emission in the entire value chain. This does not
only focus on reducing the energy consumption in the
production, but also on the energy consumption and
transportation of the products, the employees’ travelling
activities etc.

3. Transportation
3.1 Reduced packaging reduces the CO2 emission
The aim of the packaging is to protect the product
during transportation from the factory to the customer.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Bang & Olufsen seeks to optimise materials and
resources for the product packaging and design it to
allow as many products on one pallet as possible to
avoid the environmental impacts related to inefficient
transport of products.
The result of the initiative is a significantly improved
end-to-end process for packaging. As an example, the
packaging for newly launched BeoVision Avant now
allows for two TVs per pallet, whereas previous TV
models would require one pallet per TV.

4. Use
The energy consumption in the use phase from
electronics is a major environmental load. Bang &
Olufsen’s products are no exception. Different
functionalities have therefore been implemented with an
aim of managing and reducing the energy consumption.
The energy consumption of a TV is (among other
things) dependent on the picture on the screen. All
Bang & Olufsen TVs have an automatic brightness
control, which reduces the energy consumption when
TV is being watched in a dark room compared to broad
daylight.
Automatic Brightness Control
Our eyes constantly adjust automatically to lighting
conditions without us noticing. Bang & Olufsen’s
Automatic Picture Control brings this to your television.
There's a large difference between watching daytime
news in a room flooded with light and cosying up in
front of a movie in the dark. Bang & Olufsen television
adapts seamlessly to these different conditions,
constantly adjusting its image to avoid strain on the
eyes
All of Bang & Olufsen’s current TVs also have energy
saving functionality for both sound and picture called an
“eco mode”. This is a setting, which the customer can
chose to reduce the products energy consumption. In
addition, the TVs also include a function where a
warning will appear on screen if a turned on TV hasn’t
been used for four hours, after which the TV
automatically will be switched off.
The energy consumption in the use phase is a
combination of the products standby usage and the
energy consumption during use of the product. The
graph below shows the total annual energy
consumption for the products, which Bang & Olufsen

CSR 2014/15. 7

has sold in the given financial year and the average
annual energy consumption by product.

reduction of 10.7 per cent compared with the target of
5.0 per cent reduction. The result was achieved by an
intensive focus from both management and employees.
Bang & Olufsen’s Aluminum production

Figure 3: Product energy consumption
20,000

120

18,000

14,000

80

MWh

12,000
10,000

60

8,000

KWh/product

100

16,000

40

6,000
4,000

20

2,000
0

0

MWh

kWh/product

Figure 3: The diagram shows the total annual energy consumption for
all sold Bang & Olufsen products in the financial year 2014//15 and the
average energy consumption by product

The average energy consumption of a Bang & Olufsen
product placed on the market during the 2014/15
financial year has decreased due to an increased share
of in sales of B&O PLAY products. The increase in the
total energy consumption is the result of the general
increase in sales.

5. Disposal
The effort to minimize waste is multifaceted, and has
the objective to both minimize the amount of waste and
secure correct waste sorting. The Bang & Olufsen
products are constructed to enable disassembly to
ensure that as much as possible can be recycled as
raw materials in new products.







For decades, Bang & Olufsen has used aluminum
as a significant design element.
Aluminum is the third most abundant element in the
earth's crust.
Aluminum is easily recycled and recycling
aluminum reduces the energy consumption for
melting with 95 per cent.
Bang & Olufsen in 2014/15 reduced the waste
related to processing aluminum with 10.7 per cent.

5.2 Disposal of worn-out products
Electronic scrap is a valuable source for recycling raw
materials if it is processed correctly. A large part of the
world legislation states that worn-out electrical and
electronic products have to be collected and processed
by an approved waste handler.

5.1 Minimizing waste from production
Scrap is reusable material left over from production.
When scrap is reduced, the raw materials are used
more efficiently, which is of benefit to both the
environment and to the cost of the purchase of new raw
material and of production.

Bang & Olufsen carries out a dismantling analysis when
developing new products to evaluate how the product
can be stripped down at disposal, what material
fractions the product consists of and how much of the
product that can be recycled. The dismantling analysis
show that in average 76 per cent of the materials in
Bang & Olufsen products has the potential to be
recycled.

Bang & Olufsen therefore has high focus on minimizing
the amount of scrap, both in the design phase of a
product and during running production.

The figure below details recyclability and energy
recovery for a selection of products launched in this
financial year.

The Scrap Reduction Program started last year
continued during 2014/15 with focus at reducing scrap
of aluminium. The program identifies the root causes
and provides mechanisms for improvements. The result
of the Scrap Reduction Program 2014/15 was a

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

CSR 2014/15. 8

Figure 4: Recyclability and energy recovery

BeoSound Moment includes various sustainability
features:

Beolit 15

MULTI-FUNCTINALITY: The multi functionality and
simplicity by design is key to the Bang & Olufsen brand.
BeoSound Moment gets rid of the need to deal with
distractions from other applications, by making your
music available all in one place, and instantly
accessible with just one touch. All-in-one products
saves energy by having only one standby energy
consumption and by reducing the energy ascribed to
the single functionality.

BeoPlay H8

BeoPlay H2

BeoPlay 2A

BeoSound Moment

BeoVision Avant
0

20

Recycling

40

60

80

100

Energy recovery

Figure 4: The graph shows recycling and energy consumption in
percentage for some of Bang & Olufsen’s’ products

A case in point - BeoSound Moment
In January 2015 Bang & Olufsen launched BeoSound
Moment: An intelligent, wireless music system that
integrates music and streaming services into one.

SIMPLE MATERIALS: What you see is what you get.
BeoSound Moment is designed by simple materials of
aluminium, plastic and wood.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY: Energy efficiency and power
management helps the consumer save energy in the
use phase. The tablet battery has gone through strict
internal quality and energy efficiency tests and holds a
76 hours standby capacity. Moreover, BeoSound
Moment automatically powers down when no signal has
been received for a longer period.
SOFTWARE UPDATE: The BeoSound Moment can be
software updated according to new features, which has
potential to extend the life time of the product.
SERVICE AND REPAIR: The BeoSound Moment is
designed for service and repair-ability. Repair of the
product will extend the life time and thereby delay the
purchase for a new products and hence the
consumption of more resources. Spare parts are
available for 8 years after the product is terminated.
TIMELESS DESIGN: Good design practise ensure that
the product lasts long and live long. BeoSound Moment
is designed with this important design feature in mind.

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

CSR 2014/15. 9

CSR results in the 2014/15 financial year
Bang & Olufsen’s key CSR initiatives and results in the 2014/15 financial year are summarised in the table below:
CSR activities, objectives and results for 2014/15
Policy Area
Topic
Objective
Human rights
Labour

Independent supplier audits

Environment

Reduction in the frequency of
work accidents per 1 million
working hours
Reduction in hours of absence
per 1,000 working hours due
to work related accidents
Reduction of energy
consumption (kWh/total salary
expense)
Reduction of scrap

Sustainable Design

Anti-corruption

Prepare CZ-site for ISO 14001
and OHSAS 18001
certification
Sharpen white collar’s
awareness of anti-corruption
policy and -legislations

Results 2014/15

Risk-assessment of supplier
base to identify audit need.
Conduct audits and followup accordingly
Frequency must not exceed
2

2 new suppliers audited
2 suppliers re-audited

Severity must not exceed
0.095

0.214
For further details, please see figure 1

<0.34

0.35
For further details, please see figure 2

A reduction of 5 per cent
compared to the 2013/14
financial year
Meet the increasing demand
for sustainable products

10.7 per cent reduction

Gaps identified

Training conducted for white
collars in Procurement and
Sales

3.5
For further details, please see figure 1

Sustainable design has now been
implemented as an integral part of the
innovation process
Gap analysis completed

Policy Awareness Program conducted
for all white collar employees

Planned CSR activities and objectives in 2015/16
In 2015/16 Bang & Olufsen will continue the work to improve the working environment and reduce the environmental
impact of the Group’s activities. Independent supplier audits will continue with re-audits of the suppliers where deviations
have been found in relation to Code of Conduct. Bang & Olufsen’s CSR activities and target for the 2015/16 financial
year are summarised in the table below:
CSR activities and objectives for 2015/16
Policy Area
Topic
Human rights
Labour

Collective agreement for
employees (Suppliers and
contractors)
Conflict minerals

Environment

Reduction of accidents

Anti-corruption

Energy savings in facilities
Policy review
Anti-corruption training

BANG & OLUFSEN A/S

Objective
Risk-assessment of supplier base to identify audit need. Conduct
audits and follow-up accordingly
Review and maintain processes and supplier agreements to avoid
conflict minerals in any product
Frequency must not exceed 2
Severity must not exceed 0.095
<0.34 kWh/total salary expense
Policies reviewed and updated to reflect actual business set-up
Conduct training for white collars in Procurement and sales

CSR 2014/15. 10

