CSR report
2014

contentS

Introduction
A Word from the CEO
Bavarian Nordic in Brief
Bavarian Nordic and CSR
Non-financial Key Figures
CSR Policies

4
4
5
5
6

Our CSR Focus Areas
Our Products
Our Environmental Work
Our Employees
Our Suppliers
Our Business Ethics

7
8
10
12
13

Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report on Key Performance Indicators
Statement on Social Performance
Statement on Environmental Performance – Global
Statement on Environmental Performance – Production
GRI Indicators

14
15
16
18
20

About the report
This Statutory Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), cf.
sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, is part
of the management’s review in the 2014 Annual Report and covers
the financial period January 1 – December 31, 2014.

4

CSR report 2014

1

A word from
the CEO
2014 was a strong year for Bavarian
Nordic where a number of significant
achievements have helped build a strong
strategic foundation for the future. We
met our financial and operational targets
and even exceeded our own expectations,
as new opportunities surfaced during
the year. Looking ahead, the road is full
of new and exciting events for Bavarian
Nordic in both the short and mid-term.
Our CSR efforts are mainly focused on
business relevant, cost saving initiatives
in our operations as well as our commit-

2

ment to contribute positively to environment and society. In 2014 we expanded
our production facility to accommodate
multiple products, and manufacturing
activities were significantly increased.
Nevertheless, we successfully managed
to reduce our relative climate impact by
more than 20%, which is a combined
result of implementation of energy saving solutions and better utilization of
resources.
We are also focused on health and
employee well-being and were pleased

to report a drop in absence rate, number of work related accidents as well as
employee turnover.
I would like to thank all Bavarian Nordic
employees involved in all CSR initiatives
in order to continuously improve different
aspects of our operations allowing us to
expand our value adding pipeline possibilities.
Paul Chaplin
President & CEO

Bavarian Nordic in brief

Bavarian Nordic is a global company that
develops and manufactures innovative
vaccines and immunotherapies for the
prevention and treatment of life-threatening diseases with unmet medical needs.
The Company's clinical pipeline focuses on
cancer and infectious diseases.
The primary source of revenue is generated from sales of IMVANEX®/IMVAMUNE®,
a smallpox vaccine approved in EU and
Canada and supplied to various government stockpiles, predominantly the U.S.
Strategic National Stockpile.

The Company’s early-stage program for an
Ebola vaccine was fast-tracked during 2014
as the outbreak in Western Africa continued
to rage. The vaccine was licensed to Janssen (a Johnson & Johnson company) who
made a huge commitment to fight the disease. As part of this commitment, Bavarian
Nordic was contracted to manufacture up to
2 million doses of its Ebola vaccine, which
also will generate significant revenue.
PROSTVAC® is the Company’s lead immunotherapy candidate in Phase 3 development for the treatment of prostate cancer.

In March 2015, a global option and license
agreement for PROSTVAC was entered
with Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Listed on the Nasdaq Copenhagen
exchange, the Company has roughly 23
thousand shareholders.
For more information, visit
www.bavarian-nordic.com

CSR report 2014

5

3

Bavarian Nordic and CSR

In addition to our annual environmental
reporting, we began working systematically with other aspects of CSR in 2009.
This work is concentrated on five focus
areas: our products, our environment, our
employees, our suppliers and business
ethics.
To ensure that our CSR initiatives are
carried out timely and efficiently and to
improve transparency on the activities,
we have established a CSR steering committee comprised of senior representatives from core functions in the Company, in addition to a CSR working group
comprised of representatives from human
resources, communications and our environmental, health and safety specialist.
In addition to a general CSR policy, we
have policies in the areas we believe are
essential to our work. Due to the size of
the Company, we do not as yet have an
actual suppliers policy, but have instead
incorporated these elements into our
general CSR policy. Neither do we have a

policy for human rights, but we are aware
of and respect the UN Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights, which we
will investigate further in relation to our
business.
Our CSR goals are driven by rational
operational measures that support the
Company's general strategy of creating
a profitable business. We are constantly
working to identify areas that are crucial
to the Company's business and are
expected to have a positive impact on
performance in working towards the CSR
targets set.
Reporting principles
This CSR report was prepared with inspiration from the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI), a recognized framework for sustainability reporting. The GRI structure includes
principles and indicators we use to measure and explain the Company’s financial,
environmental and social performance.
Reference to GRI indicators included in this
report is made on page 20.

Scope of our reporting
In order to focus on business relevance,
we selected the areas to be reported on
based on a principle of materiality: we
endeavored to include the most important ways in which the Company has
either a direct or an indirect impact on
the world around it. Our manufacturing
facility in Kvistgaard, Denmark, where
also our headquarters are located, is one
of the chief sources of our environmental
impact, and we seek to provide a high
degree of transparency by calculating our carbon footprint and reporting
environmental data. In addition, we have
included our facilities in Martinsried,
Germany (research and development) and
Mountain View, California, USA (research
and development). Taken together, these
facilities employ more than 99% of the
Group's staff and are responsible for the
greatest share by far of the energy and
raw materials consumed by the Company.

Non-financial key figures
	

2014	2013	2012	2011	2010

Carbon footprint, global, tCO2	
Carbon footprint, production, tCO2	
Carbon footprint, index per batch(1)	
Absence rate	
Accidents, number per million working hours(2)	
Employee turnover, percent	
Number of employees	

3,543	3,345	3,662	3,813	3,787
2,417	2,102	2,319	2,565	2,587
85	109	 53	 53	108
3.1%	3.9%	4.3%	3.7%	4.6%
1.4	2.6	3.8	4.0	7.6
13.8	19.6	13.7	14.1	 6.3
437	440	461	452	412

	 2009: Index 100
	 Accident rates for 2010-2012 have been calculated on a different basis than accident rates for 2013-2014. See reporting practice for occupational accidents on
page 15

(1)

(2)

6

CSR report 2014

CSR policies
Bavarian Nordic develops and manufactures vaccines for the
prevention and treatment of life-threatening diseases where
there are as yet unmet needs. In doing so, we seek to create
a continuing business that will ensure the Company’s growth
through new investments in research and development of new
therapies that contribute to a healthier and safer society.
At the same time, we focus on working and acting responsibly
with respect to the world we live in. We aim to do this by

•	 m
 aintaining an active dialog with our stakeholders on a
local, national and global level.
•	 actively supporting and respecting human rights and labor
standards.
•	 providing a safe and healthy working environment for our
staff that includes opportunities for professional and personal development.
•	 communicating our CSR policy to external collaboration
partners, including our suppliers.
•	 conducting business according to highest ethical standards

•	 m
 anufacturing high-quality vaccines.
•	 working actively and systematically to minimize our impact
on the environment and climate.

Environmental and climate policy

Health and safety policy

At Bavarian Nordic, we design our vaccine production facilities and procedures so that viruses do not escape into the
indoor or outdoor environment through the air or in our
wastewater. We continually work to improve our environmental and climate performance. Our aims are

A safe and healthy working environment is vital to employee safety and satisfaction at the workplace. We focus
on systematically mapping both the physical and mental
working environment so that the necessary preventive steps
can be taken, for the benefit of both individual employees
and the Company as a whole.

•	 t o encourage environmentally aware behavior and
prevent contamination and pollution throughout the
Company.
•	 to reduce our environmental and climate impact by
	 •	 developing and using processes with a minimum of
environmental impact.
	 •	 optimizing our utilization of materials and energy.
	 •	 reducing emissions and waste.
•	 to comply with environmental protection regulations and
relevant requirements.
•	 to gradually build an environmental management system
based on the principles in the ISO 14001 standard.

The aims of our general health and safety policy are
•	 t o regular train and educate our health and safety
employee representatives, so they are updated on the
relevant topics and legislation.
•	 to secure well-functioning and well informed workers
and safety committees on all relevant sites.
•	 to promote awareness of health- and safety-related behavior in all employees as part of their day-to-day work
and to produce proactive solutions to potential problems.
•	 to gradually develop an environmental health and safety
management system to support this proactive safety
work.

CSR report 2014

7

4

Our products

Product safety is crucial in our business,
and quality and responsibility are important elements of our corporate culture.
Drug development is a highly regulated
area, in which a strong regulatory regime
of inspections and approvals sets a high
standard for all areas of our disciplines.
The pharmaceutical industry works according to GMP(1). GMP includes strict
requirements with respect to a product’s
traceability, strength, quality and purity,
which means that quality management is
built into each step of the manufacturing
process. GMP rules are laid down by the
Danish, European and U.S. health authorities.
Bavarian Nordic supplies these markets
and thus complies with these quality
requirements.
Vaccines for infectious diseases
The backbone of Bavarian Nordics business over the past many years has been
the development, production and supply
of a new smallpox vaccine for government stockpiles around the world, for use
in emergency situations. The vaccine is
non-replicating, thus suitable for persons

	 Good Manufacturing Practice

(1)

who are not recommended vaccination
with traditional smallpox vaccines.
The vaccine, known as IMVANEX or
IMVAMUNE, has been approved in EU and
Canada and the Company has to-date
delivered 28 million doses of the vaccine
to our primary customer, the U.S. Government, who also funded the development
of the vaccine.
Leveraging on the smallpox vaccine
success, we began working with the U.S.
Government in 2010 on the development
of an Ebola vaccine based on our proprietary technology platform, MVA-BN.
The rapidly developing Ebola outbreak in
Western Africa in 2014 forced the summoning of authorities and the industry
to assess the ongoing developments of
therapeutics to fight the disease, and
Bavarian Nordic’s Ebola vaccine program
(MVA-BN Filo) was fast-tracked in partnership with Janssen due to promising results
from animal studies with a combined vaccine regimen of both companies’ vaccines,
that had shown complete protection
against the Ebola Zaire strain, which is
responsible for the current outbreak.

These promising results led to a license
and supply agreement with Janssen, under which Bavarian Nordic will manufacture and supply approximately 2 million
doses of the vaccine during 2015.
Active cancer immunotherapies help
the body to fight cancer
Immunotherapies belong to a new class
of treatment, aimed at training the
patient's own immune system to fight
cancer. We have multiple projects in our
pipeline, targeted at various cancers.
PROSTVAC, our leading project, is in
final Phase 3 development. In an earlier
Phase 2 clinical study, PROSTVAC demonstrated an increased median survival
time of 8.5 months for patients with
advanced prostate cancer. These results
are among the best ever demonstrated
in this patient group, and they have led
to the start-up of a global clinical Phase
3 study in 1200 patients with metastatic
castration-resistant prostate cancer. The
study completed enrollment in December
2014 and is now awaiting data that could
potentially support a marketing authorization for PROSTVAC.

8

CSR report 2014

5

Our environmental work

Our primary impact on the environment
and climate is derived from our production, and we endeavor to improve our
manufacturing efficiency and processes
in order to optimize energy consumption
and to minimize emissions and waste.
We wish to be at the forefront of environmental work and we seek to be so by
maintaining a high degree of compliance
and systematization in our organization,
driven by our environment, health and
safety specialist who proactively works to
ensure that we comply with our own as
well as external guidelines as required by
the authorities.
We are also actively working with environmental, health and safety planning in
new building projects. This has particularly
characterized our work in 2014, where our
manufacturing was transitioned into a
multi-product facility in order to accommodate the production of Ebola vaccine,
PROSTVAC and other future commercial
products, in addition to our smallpox vaccine, which has been produced at the site
for several years.

2014 developments
Lower relative climate impact
despite increased activities
Our total CO2 emissions were only
slightly higher by 6% compared to
2013, despite significantly increased
manufacturing activities as result
of transitioning to multiple product
manufacturing. For the production
alone, the increase was 11%, which
are being partly offset by reductions
in other areas.
Our relative climate impact from
production dropped by impressive
22% in 2014 and is result of better
utilization of the resources.
Air recirculation helps reduce
energy consumption
A new building of more than 900 m²
was constructed at the Kvistgaard
facility as part of the expansion that
allows for multiple product manufacturing. Although this has expanded
the total floor area at the site by
11%, the overall energy consumption

at the Kvistgaard facility dropped by 7%
in 2014, to a level below our targets. This
is primarily due to new energy saving
measures implemented in the new building, including heat pump and recirculation
of air.
Tracking energy consumption helps
defining reduction targets
The energy monitoring system that was
installed at our Kvistgaard facility a few
years ago allows us to identify inappropriate consumption of energy and water
and thus make improvements. In 2014
we reduced the water consumption by
4% in the production, despite increased
activities.
Waste
The amount of waste was lower than
compared to 2013, which is largely attributed to improved manufacturing
efficiency and lower scrap rates.
A mapping of waste at the Kvistgaard
facility was conducted in 2014. This aims

CSR report 2014

to increase the amount of waste for recycling, but also helps to improve processes
for handling of waste, where potential
savings can be made.
Energy screening
An energy screening of our water cooling
systems at the Kvistgaard facility was conducted in 2014. Further energy screenings
are planned for 2015.
Key performance indicators established
for energy, chemicals and production
waste
In line with our goals for 2014, we have
established key performance indicators
(KPIs) for energy consumption, waste
recycling and for use of chemicals in the
production. The KPIs are outlined in our
goals for the coming years.
Renewed environmental permit
Based upon the environmental technical description for our facility, which
we updated in late 2013, the Danish
environmental authorities conducted a

reassessment during 2014, successfully resulting in a renewal of our
environmental permit. The permit
also covers the new production building which was established as part of
transitioning to multiple products.
Locals invited for meeting on Ebola
vaccine production
The Company hosted an information meeting on its recent initiation
of production of an Ebola vaccine.
Neighbors, local authorities and media attended the meeting and were
well informed about the implications
for production of this new vaccine,
which is harmless to the surroundings like all other vaccines produced
by the Company.

Goals
Energy consumption
We will work to maintain
our annual relative energy
consumption (KWh per m2)
at the Danish facility below
our target.

Recycling
We will work to increase
recycling of waste from our
production.

Chemicals
We will work to reduce
the relative consumption
of chemicals used in our
production.

9

10

CSR report 2014

6

Our employees

Our employees are our most valuable
asset and as an innovative, knowledgebased company, it is important for us to
attract and retain highly qualified workers. Also for this reason, we want to offer
our staff a good and inspiring working
environment that also provides them with
development opportunities.
At Bavarian Nordic, we strive to maintain
a good, healthy work-life balance, and we
focus on employee health, safety and job
satisfaction. We do so in a close dialogue
between management and employees
through a number of established committees, including a works council and a
health and safety committee on which
both management and employees are
represented and regularly discuss matters
that may have an impact on the wellbeing and jobs of our employees.
Being a global organization, we support
a diverse, accommodating and non-discriminatory working environment where,
regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, physical impairment, religion or sexual orientation, we all aspire to the same objectives.
Likewise, we share the same corporate
values: Excellence, Agility and Dedication
that have become an important foundation of how we work to achieve both our
corporate as well as individual goals.

2014 developments
Employee turnover
The rate of employee turnover was
13.8% (2013: 19.6%) and compares
well to the previous years, except for
2013, where there was a significant
outflow of employees due to closure
of the Berlin facility, whose activities
were transferred to Denmark as part
of consolidation of manufacturing
activities. In 2014, we set a goal for our
employee turnover.
Lower absence rate
The absence rate was 3.1% in 2014
(2013: 3.9%) which was lower than
that of other companies (see figure 1).
Absence was generally lower at both
sites where the absence is recorded

Sickness absence

(Denmark and Germany), compared to
2013. Thus our target to maintain the
absence rate below 4% was met.
Decline in occupational accidents
In 2014, there was only one minor
occupational accident, the lowest
number reported thus far. The accident
rate remains below that of other
companies (see figure 2). We recently
began reporting of near-misses that
could have led to an accident, thus
strengthening the preventative work
performed by our health and safety
committee. In 2014, we set a goal for
occupational accidents.

Occupational accidents

Absence rates

Frequency

6

30

5

25

4

20

3

15

2

10

1

5

0

0

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
  Bavarian Nordic    All companies

Comparison with DI (Confederation of Danish
Industry) statistics for sickness absence (all
companies).

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
  Bavarian Nordic    All companies

Number of accidents per million working hours
compared with DI (Confederation of Danish
Industry) statistics for work-related accidents (all
occupational groups).

CSR report 2014

Gender diversity at management levels
We maintained an equal distribution of
men and women in managerial positions
with 47% and 53 % respectively. Managers and executives are selected exclusively on the basis of their qualifications and
not on gender. This ensures that we can
provide equal opportunities to both sexes
if candidates for the positions have the
required professional background.
Employee development and training
We continued our focus on training and
education and on upgrading our employee’s qualifications. Some of our production
operators have received in-house training
from other departments as part of the
transition to multi-product manufacturing,
some have been trained for work in crossorganizational projects, and others have
completed external training as plant operators. These initiatives help to increase
quality of work as well as job satisfaction,
thereby retaining good employees.
In California, a presentation skill workshop was held in order for employees
achieve a higher, more polished level of
presentation skills, whether in a meeting
or a large-group presentation.
Leadership training
We continued our leadership development
with a program for managers in California
that focused on priority management, objective setting and planning, productive-

ness, delegation, coaching and more.
Similar initiatives are planned for
2015 for new managers in Germany
and Denmark.
Strengthened internal
communications
We have focused on strengthening our internal communications
throughout the organization. Apart
from the day-to-day information of
all employees on relevant issues, we
have introduced monthly meetings
where management representatives present and discuss strategy,
developments and timely topics with
all employees. These meetings not
only help to improve the information
level, but also allows for employees
to meet with management as well
as for the management to better feel
the pulse of the organization.
In addition, scientific workshops,
meetings and webinars are also held
regularly to increase the internal
knowledge and improve relations
across the organization.
Anti-harassment policy introduced
An anti-harassment policy was
introduced, followed up by training of managers, which included
an introduction of tools to prevent
harassment

Goals
Occupational
accidents
In 2016, the annual number
of occupational accidents
should be equivalent or
less than the average of
the previous three years.

Absence
We will work to maintain
the annual absence due to
sickness below 4%.

Employee turnover
In 2016, the annual employee turnover rate should
be below the average of
the previous three years.

Gender diversity at
management levels
We will work to maintain
an equal gender distribution among the managers
of the Group.

11

12

CSR report 2014

7

Our Suppliers

Our suppliers of raw materials are mainly
located in North America and the EU,
which are areas with a high level of
regulation of social and environmental
parameters in place.
In accordance with both Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and our own supplier

management system, all new raw materials suppliers are audited. Following the
initial audit, suppliers are evaluated every
third year as a minimum, either by way of
a visit or a questionnaire, depending on
the situation. The structured audit process
helps us to gauge the quality and CSR
mindset of our suppliers. Through this

close collaboration with our key suppliers,
we are gaining a deep insight into their
business processes and capabilities, which
provides important learnings for optimizing our own processes.

Minimized environmental impact from
raw materials
The close collaboration with our key
suppliers revealed the possibility to
transition to a similar raw-material, but
one with a better shelf-life (less waste)
and the ability to store the material at
higher temperatures (lower emissions). In
general, we have optimized the consumption of raw materials and additives in the
production, thereby reducing the relative
consumption on largely all parameters
compared to 2013.

Optimized ordering process
The transition of the manufacturing facility from one to multiple products has
required a review of existing ordering processes. Through closer planning with our
key suppliers, we have achieved a more
optimal ordering process that helps to
ensure timely availability of raw materials
for different production campaigns.

2014 developments
Flexible suppliers
As part of our recently entered partnership with Janssen, we had to switch to
a high production volume of bulk drug
substance for our Ebola vaccine with
very short notice. This was successfully
achieved due to a high internal flexibility,
but also the flexibility of our suppliers
who understood the importance of helping in a very special situation.

CSR report 2014

13

8

Our Business ethics

Bavarian Nordic prioritizes business
ethics as a natural part of its underlying
business concept. We want to be seen as
credible and reliable by all our stakeholders.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
(“the Code”) describes the ethical requirements for all employees’ and the Board of

Directors’ behavior in relation to customers, employees, shareholders, society,
suppliers and partners. The Code includes
the rules and regulations in the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the Truth
in Negotiations Act (TINA) that are relevant in connection with the Company's
business transactions and negotiations in
the United States.

The observation of the Code rests upon all
employees and all employees are encouraged to report issues, concerns and any
breach of the Code. For this purpose, the
Company has established a whistleblower
system (“Ethics Hotline”).

2014 developments
Updated Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct was updated, providing more detail and better guidelines for
the employees. The Code was presented
throughout the organization and by
January 2015, all employees had acknowledged their acquaintance with the code.
New employees will receive training in
the Code as part of their introduction
program at employment.

Ethics hotline launched
The Company launched an ethics
hotline to give employees the opportunity to report suspected violations
of the Code. The hotline has been set
up in collaboration with a third-party
service provider, partly to protect the
employees who raise concerns, and
partly to ensure that the necessary
investigations are conducted when a
concern has been raised.

Goals
Human rights
We will conduct a screening
of the UN guiding principles
on business and human
rights (2015)

14

CSR report 2014

9

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
ON KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

To the Executive Board of
Bavarian Nordic A/S
We have reviewed the key performance
indicators for 2014 in Tables 1 to 6 in
Bavarian Nordic A/S’ 2014 CSR report for
the purpose of issuing an auditor’s report
in this respect.
The Company’s Management is responsible for the CSR report. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the key
performance indicators in the CSR report
based on our review.

Scope of work
We conducted our work in accordance
with International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE 3000DK) Other than
Audits or Review of Historical Financial
information and additional requirements
under Danish audit regulation to obtain
reasonable assurance that the key performance indicators in table 1 to 6 in the CSR
Report for 2014 in all material respects are
calculated in accordance with the reporting practice described. Our work has been
limited primarily to inquiries of company
personnel and analytical procedures.

Copenhagen, 11 March 2015
Deloitte
Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab

Jørgen Holm Andersen			Martin Faarborg
State Authorised Public Accountant		
State Authorised Public Accountant

We believe that the work conducted provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
Conclusion
Based on our work, nothing has come to
our attention that causes us to believe
that the key performance indicators in
Tables 1 to 6 in the CSR report for 2014
are not calculated in accordance with the
reporting practice described.

15

CSR report 2014

10

STATEMENT ON SOCIAL PERFORMANCE

Employees
Reporting practice
Absence
Absence data includes recorded staff sick
days and child sick days for employees
in Denmark and Germany only. Absence
is not recorded among our employees
in USA and thus does not contribute to
the statistics. Leave – also maternity and
paternity leave – is not included in these
figures. The absence rate was calculated
by dividing the total number of days of
absence by the product of the average
number of full-time employees for the
year and the number of work days in the
calendar year.
Employee turnover rate
Employee turnover rate is calculated as
the number of employees that left their
jobs divided by the average number of
employees over the course of the year.
Occupational accidents
Occupational accident data relates to
accidents resulting in at least one day of
absence, in addition to the day of injury.
Absence rates for 2010-2012 presented
in the non-financial key figures on page
5 were based on accidents resulting in
at least one day of absence inclusive of
the day of injury. The accident rate is the
number of occupational accidents per one
million working hours; vacation days are
not included.

Table 1		2014	2013
Employees, total (year-end)		
437	
440
Employees, FTE average over the year		
421	
441
Distribution:		
Denmark		239	238
Germany		109	126
USA		72	76
Other		1	1
	
	
Absence		 3.1%	3.9%
Employee turnover		
13.8%	
19.6%
		
Employee groups		
Ratio of men to women in management and
executive positions		
47% / 53%	
54% / 46%
Employees under collective agreement		
52	
52
Other employees (white-collar workers with or
without management responsibility)		
385	
388
Occupational accidents		
Occupational accident frequency (number/million
working hours)		
Occupational accidents in numbers		
Average absence per occupational accident in days		

1.4	
1	
3.0	

2.6(1)
2(1)
2.5(1)

	The comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due to a change in reporting principle to ensure
comparability with annual statistics from DI (Confederation of Danish Industry) for work-related accidents.

(1)

16

CSR report 2014

11

STATEMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE – GLOBAL

Carbon footprint
Reporting practice
Carbon footprint calculations are based
on the standard from and recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Initiative(1) for calculating an organization’s
total carbon emissions, which include the
six greenhouse gasses addressed by the
Kyoto Protocol – CO2,CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs
and SF6 – calculated in metric tons of CO2
equivalents. Emissions sources are divided
into three scopes: direct emissions from
activities under the Company’s control
(Scope 1), emissions from the consumption of electrical power (Scope 2) and
indirect emissions from products and
services (Scope 3). Our reporting covers
Scope 1 and Scope 2, thus fulfilling the
minimum recommendations.
We have calculated the total carbon emissions from our locations in Kvistgaard,
Martinsried and Mountain View. From
2013, power and heating consumption
at our leased laboratories in Hørsholm,
Denmark are also included.
For other sites, the calculations include
the following four different types of emissions:
Natural gas and oil
This figure is based primarily on current
consumption as measured by monthly
meter readings. Oil used for emergency
generators is based on oil purchased.
Greenhouse gas emissions from the com-

bustion of fossil fuels are calculated on
the basis of an average emission factor.
Fugitive emissions
Fugitive emissions include CO2 from the
use of dry ice and CO2 gas plus emissions
of greenhouse gasses from cooling and
refrigeration systems.
Electricity
Electrical power consumption is based on
meter readings recorded at the end of the
year. The calculation of greenhouse gas
emissions from electrical power consump-

tion is based on specific emission factors
provided by the power company and an
average emission factor for generation of
power in Germany.
Mileage (in km)
This figure is calculated on the basis of
receipts from gasoline companies and includes motor vehicles owned or leased by
the Company. Greenhouse gas emissions
are calculated on the basis of an average
fuel-specific emission factor for ordinary
cars in Denmark and Germany.

Table 2		2014	2013
Units in t CO2		
Carbon footprint, global		
3,543	
3,345
Direct emissions (Scope 1)		
Heating		 981	1,324
Power generation		
0	
12
Fugitive emissions		
88	
14
Transport of employees (motor vehicles)		
46	
67
Transport of raw materials (internal)		
1	
1
Indirect emissions (Scope 2)		
Electrical power, purchased		
2,280	
Heating, purchased		
147	
Cooling, purchased			
		
Carbon footprint, Production		
2,417	
Carbon footprint, Production, Index per batch produced		
85	

1,734
193
2,102
109

	www.ghgprotocol.org
	http://www.ens.dk/da-DK/KlimaOgCO2/CO2Kvoter/produktionsenheder/co2_rapportering/Documents/standardfaktorer%202011.pdf,
	http://www.pge.com/myhome/environment/calculator/assumptions.shtml
(4)
	Energinet, an independent government owned enterprise under the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building, http://www.energinet.dk/DA/KLIMA-OG-MILJOE/
Miljoedeklarationer/Sider/Miljoedeklarering-af-1-kWh-el.aspx.
(5)
	IEA, the International Energy Agency, is an independent organization working to ensure reliable, cheap and clean energy for its 28 member countries.
(6)
	AGFW, "Der Energieeffizienzverband für Wärme, Kälte und KWK e. V."
(1)

(2)
(3)

CSR report 2014

Emission factors
In calculating CO2 emissions, specific
emission factors based on emissions type
and geographic location were used. CO2
emissions from the combustion of natural
gas, oil, gasoline, diesel fuel and LPG and
from fugitive emissions were deemed to
have a general global effect with minor
local differences. Emission factors from
these sources are based on data provided
by the Danish Energy Agency.(2)
However, natural gas emission factors for
Mountain View are based on figures from

The Pacific Gas and Electric Company(3), a
provider of natural gas and electricity in
California.
Emissions for locally purchased electricity were determined on the basis of local
conditions. Emission factors for Kvistgaard
are based on factors for Denmark as a
whole.(4) Emission calculations for electrical power at Mountain View are based
on emission factors provided by The
Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Emission
calculations for electrical power purchased
in Germany are based on general German

17

emission factors(5); emission calculations
for district heating purchased in Germany
are based on emission factors published
by local district heating companies.(6)
Indexed CO2 emissions per batch
produced.
CO2 emissions per manufactured batch are
indexed to 2009 and calculated on the
basis of the number of batches manufactured during the calendar year.

18

CSR report 2014

12

STATEMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE – PRODUCTION

The following tables only cover environmental conditions relating to our production facility in Kvistgaard, Denmark, and

contain data that must be reported and
published under Danish environmental
legislation and the EU PRTR(1) regulation.

Raw and ancillary materials
Reporting practice
Raw materials for production are calculated based on the Company's inventory
system (ERP system), and figures refer to
consumption for the year. Ancillary materials (acids/bases, salt and refrigerants)
are materials sourced during the year, and
figures are based on invoiced purchases.
Chicken eggs are used in the production
process, inoculated with MVA-BN® to produce the active ingredient of the vaccine.
Ready-mixed media (nutrients) are used
to culture the biological agents, along
with ready-made saline solutions to purify
the active ingredient. To maintain a sterile
production environment, plastic disposables (e.g. bags, tubes) are used widely in
the production. As part of the manufacturing expansion in 2014, a new production
method was implemented where plastic
roller bottles are used for virus growth.

Table 3		2014	2013
Eggs (pcs.)		
515,920	
565,500
Various ready-mix media, etc. (liters)		
78,408	
111,217
Acids/bases (liters)		
5,579	
10,644
Salt (NaCl)		
9,000	
6,000
Cleaning agents, disinfectants (liters)		
17,988	
16,127
Plastic disposables (pcs.)		
15,408	
9,914
Refrigerants, propylene glycol, etc. (liters)		
90	
326
CO2 (Nm3)		44,915	45,319
N2 (Nm3)		 993	1,784
Propane (kg)		264	264
Agar plates (pcs.)		
75,540	
75,670
Media for process simulation (liters)		
8,760	
7,402

Disinfectants are used together with
acidic and alkaline solutions to clean systems and equipment and adjust the pH of
the wastewater before discharging it into
the municipal sewer system. Disinfectants
are also used to disinfect the eggs before

further processing. Glycol is used in the
cooling/refrigeration systems, along with
small amounts of corrosion inhibitors in
the production of steam.

	PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register: http://europa.eu/legislation_summaries/environment/general_provisions/l28149_en.htm

(1)

CSR report 2014

19

Water and wastewater
Reporting practice
Water consumption is calculated for
the entire Kvistgaard facility, including
laboratories and administrative functions.
An analysis of wastewater is made once
a year. The figures in Table 4 for phosphorous, nitrogen, carbon and chlorides are
based on these measurements.
Process wastewater is heat-inactivated,
cooled and pH adjusted before being
discharged into the public sewer system.
Inactivation is a procedure that ensures
that all virus remnants are rendered 100%
harmless, and the system is checked for

Table 4		2014	2013

Sanitary wastewater (m3)		 3,735	3,680
Process wastewater (m3)		7,856	8,218
Total wastewater (m3)		 11,591	11,898
		
Phosphorus (kg)		
25	
29
Nitrogen (kg)		
191	
224
Total organic carbon (kg)		
602	
630
Chlorides (kg)		
8,642	
5,259

operational problems before discharge.
This treatment ensures that the discharged wastewater complies with the

requirements in the Company's permit to
use the municipal sewer system.

Waste
Reporting practice
Waste volumes are calculated based on
annual statements from approved waste
carriers handling ordinary and hazardous
waste.
Waste consists primarily of disposable
process equipment and egg waste.
Disposable process equipment includes
production bags, tubing and other
disposable equipment. The bags are
autoclaved and sent to incineration; the

Table 5		2014	2013

Total waste (metric tons)		
117	
125
– of which hazardous waste (metric tons)		
13	
20
		
Breakdown of waste disposed of:		
Incineration		78%	74%
Recycling		 11%	10%
Special treatment		
11%	
16%

egg waste is also sent to incineration.
Hazardous waste includes organic sol-

vents, acids, bases, hazardous clinical
waste, etc.

Incidents of non-compliance with environmental protection legislation
Reporting practice
Violations of terms are reported to and
discussed with the relevant authorities
in order to assess the need for potential
corrective actions.

Table 6		2014	2013
Violations of terms, etc. and accidental discharge		
0	
1
Complaints		0	0

20

CSR report 2014

13

GRI INDICATORS

This CSR report was prepared with inspiration from parts of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)(1), a recognized framework for sustainability reporting. The GRI structure includes principles and indicators used to measure and explain financial, environmental and social
performance.

GRI ref.	 Description	

Reference

Profile disclosure	
1.2	

Description of key impacts, risks, 	
and opportunities

GRI ref.	 Description	

Reference

Economic performance indicators	
Section 3

EC1	

Direct economic value generated and distributed	 Annual report

Environmental performance indicators	

2.1	

Name of the organization	

Section 2

2.2	

Primary brands, products, and/or services 	

Section 4

EN1	

Materials used by weight or volume	

Section 12

2.3	

Operational structure of the organization, incl. 	
main divisions, operating companies,
subsidiaries and joint ventures

Annual report

EN2	

Percentage of materials used that are recycled 	
input materials

Section 12

EN3	

Direct energy consumption by primary source 	

Section 13

2.4	

Location of organization’s headquarters	

Section 2

EN4	

Indirect energy consumption by primary source 	

Section 12

2.5	

Number of countries where the organization 	
operates

Section 2

EN5	

Energy saved due to conservation and 	
efficiency improvements

Section 5

2.6	

Nature of ownership and legal form	

Section 2

EN8	

Total water withdrawal by source 	

Section 12

2.7	

Markets 	

Section 2

EN16	

Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 	
emissions by weight

Section 12

2.8	

Scale of the reporting organization 	

Annual report

2.9	

Significant changes during the reporting period 	
regarding size, structure or ownership

Annual report

EN17	

Other relevant indirect indirect greenhouse gas 	
emissions by weight

Section 12

EN18	

Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 	
and reductions achieved

Section 5

EN19	

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 	
by weight

Section 12

EN20	

NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 	
by type and weight

Section 12

3.1	

Reporting period 	

Section 1

3.3	

Reporting cycle 	

Section 1

3.4	

Contact point for questions regarding report 	

Back page

3.5	

Process for defining report content	

Section 3

3.6	

Boundary of the report 	

Section 3

3.7	

Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 	 Section 4
the report

3.9	

Data measurement techniques and the bases of 	 Section 10-12
calculations, including assumptions and
techniques underlying estimations applied to
the compilation of the indicators and other
information in the report

EN21	

Total water discharge by quality and destination 	 Section 12

EN22	

Total weight of waste by type 	
and disposal method

Section 12

EN23	

Total number and volume of significant spills 	

Section 12

EN24	

Weight of transported, imported, exported, or 	
treated waste deemed hazardous

Section 12

EN28	

Monetary value of significant fines and 	
total number of non-monetary sanctions for
non-compliance with environmental laws
and regulations

Section 12

3.10	

Explanation of the effect of any restatements of 	 Section 10-12
information in previous reports and
the reasons for such restatements

3.11	

Significant changes to previous reporting periods 	 Sections 3
in the scope, boundary, or measurement 	
& 10-12
methods applied in the report.

3.12	

Table identifying the location of 	
the Standard Disclosures in the report

Section 13

LA1	

Total workforce by employment type, 	
employment contract, and region

Section 10

3.13	

Policy and current practice with regard to 	
seeking external assurance for the report

Section 9

LA2	

Total number and rate of employee turnover 	
by age group, gender, and region

Section 10

4.2	

Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 	
governance body is also an executive officer

Annual report

The number of members of the highest 	
governance body that are independent and/or
non-executive members.

Annual report

4.3	

4.8	

Internally developed statements of mission or 	
Sections 6 & 8
values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant
to economic, environmental and social performance

	http://www.globalreporting.org

(1)

Social performance indicators	

LA3	

Employee benefits	

Annual report

LA4	

Percentage of employees covered by collective 	
bargaining agreements

Section 10

LA7	

Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 	 Section 10
and absenteeism, and number of work-related
fatalities by region

Design and graphic production: MeyerBukdahl

Company headquarters
Bavarian Nordic A/S
Hejreskovvej 10A
DK-3490 Kvistgaard
Denmark
Phone: +45 3326 8383
Fax: +45 3326 8380
CVR no: 16 27 11 87
Website
www.bavarian-nordic.com
E-mail
info@bavarian-nordic.com

