Management report
Social Responsibility

helps to bond investing and financing together for
approximately 37,800 private customers and
3,275 business customers in the market area.
A portion of the bank's operating costs are settle
as revenue in a number of local businesses and
the bank's around 185 employees also helps to
create income and growth in the local area.

The Bank's social responsibility policy
The bank's five values, together with the Bank's
environmental policy is the foundation in the
bank's ongoing work with CSR.
The five values
• Team, Wellbeing and Security
• Committed and effective
• Active Customer Advice
• Common sense in the economy
• Local and visible

The Bank's direct economic contribution in terms
of public payments for 2014 can be calculated as:
24.5% corporate income tax
11.4% payroll tax
Property tax
Total

forms the core values for the bank's management
and employees are expected to base their daily
work and decisions on these.
The values are described below in conjunction
with the 4 major stakeholder areas the bank's
social responsibility primarily aims at:
•
•
•
•

DKK 13.1m
DKK 11.0m
DKK 0.3m
DKK 24.4m

In addition comes, payment of energy charges,
other fees and VAT.
For the year 2014, the direct effect of the bank as
a workplace is calculated to:

Customers
Employees
Local community
Environment, climate and social compliance

Employee's payment of income tax DKK 26.5m
Labour tax
DKK 6.9m
Total
DKK 33.4m
The bank has chosen to publish the statutory
report on corporate social responsibility to its
website.
Thus goals, status and trends in each area are
described annually in an appendix to the bank's
annual report, which all of the bank's
stakeholders have access to at
https://alm.djurslands-bank.dk/samfundsansvar.

In the bank, we believe the greatest contribution
to social responsibility is created when the bank's
core business is in line with society's general interests, and community responsibility thus becomes
an integral part of the bank's daily actions.
The Bank also supports the Parliament’s initiatives
and efforts to bring human rights and climate impacts high on the social agenda. But as a local
bank, we have a strong locally focus and has
therefore no specific policies in these two areas.
The Bank’s environmental policy
The bank wants to comply with and support the
development of the Danish environmental
legislation.
As a company, implementation of the policy is
primarily in the areas of energy, technology and
buildings by continuously acting with the intent to
use solutions, which spent few natural resources
in the most environmentally friendly way.
As a workplace, implementation is made through
employee policies and values "Team, Welfare and
Safety" as well as through a constructive cooperation in the bank's work organization.
As a creditor, implementation of the bank's environmental policy is based on the bank's customer
and credit policy.
The Bank's financial community contribution
The Bank provides financial assistance - as a local
business in Eastern Jutland - both directly and
indirectly to create value for society.
The indirect contribution in the form of the bank

16

