CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
REPORTING ACCORDING TO SECTION 99A
OF THE DANISH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACT
Greentech is highly aware of the Company’s role as a player in society in a local,
national and international context. Therefore, Greentech remains attentive
towards making targeted efforts to ensure that its core business area and
activities are developed in a financially, environmentally and socially responsible
manner by both complying with statutory requirements and taking voluntary
corporate responsibility initiatives in the countries and communities in which
Greentech operates. Greentech believes that responsible business behaviour is a
precondition for long-term value creation for the Company and its stakeholders.
The UN principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and
anticorruption form the guiding framework on which Greentech’s corporate
responsibility efforts are based.
In its considerations relating to Corporate Responsibility initiatives, Greentech
seeks inspiration in the UN Global Compact initiative for corporate social
responsibility.
Climate and environment
Through the Company’s core business of producing and selling renewable
energy and environmental activities of water and sludge treatment, Greentech
directly contributes to set a positive footprint in terms of reducing the
environmental and climate impact.

GREENTECH ENERGY SYSTEMS A/S

In line with Greentech’s business goal of enlarging the operational portfolio,
Greentech strives to generate and distribute clean energy production in order to
preserve the environment and to contribute to a world sustainable growth.
During the past years, Greentech has provided an overall increasing production
of renewable energy providing environmental advantages in terms of savings of
fossil fuels and reduction of CO2 emissions.
2014

2013

2012

2011

Gross production
468.8
(GWh)
Clean Power Supply 156,262

492.8

444.2

358.1

164,252

148,074

119,373

248,456

261,161

235,883

190,162

639,938

672,661

606,409

488,870

(Number of
house-holds in 1 year)

Emission of CO2
avoided
(tons)
Oil saved
(Barrels)

Development
2011 – 2014

+31%

In 2014, the production of Greentech’s gross installed capacity supplied
156,000 families with non-polluting energy - an increase of more than
30% compared to 2011.
In 2014, Greentech’s clean energy gross production corresponded to
a reduction of approx. 250,000 tons CO2 - equalling the elimination
of emissions from more than 100,000 cars.

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REVIEW | 33

As Greentech offers an alternative to the dependency on scarce and polluting
power sources providing clean energy without emissions
of hazardous particles or greenhouse gases, no special environmental risks are
related to Greentech’s activities.
The Company, however, stays extremely attentive towards and is highly
committed to assess the physical impact of its activities. Greentech’s projects
are subject to environmental permits, and at all project stages Greentech is
governed by comprehensive environmental legislation and rules which, through
mandatory surveys and analyses, serve to safeguard the surroundings of the
Company’s plants, i.e. flora and fauna, local residents and the landscape.
Greentech has no outstanding environmental issues with authorities, nongovernmental organisations or local residents related to the Company’s activities.
To the extent possible, Greentech also limits the environmental impact of its
business activities. Greentech focuses on replanting of e.g. trees and shrubs
in corresponding areas if removal of such plants is needed to complete the
Company’s activities.
In order to consider also the environmental impact of the Company’s
administrative activities, Greentech has decided, starting from 2014, not to
present the annual report in a printed and bound version, but only electronically.
People

terms of geographical and cultural
background, gender and age
distribution (see the paragraph
“Organisation” for details on the
composition of the employees).
Moreover, a safe and healthy
workplace continuous to be a priority
for Greentech. Particularly in the
Company’s wind and solar plants,
severe health and safety procedures
are implemented to secure the
employees and minimise risk of
occupational accidents. Also in 2014,
these provisions have contributed to
an injury- and incident-free working
environment.
As Greentech’s activities are often
carried out in geographical areas that
have a high rate of unemployment,
Greentech also contributes to
ensuring growth in local communities
through employment of local workers,
contractors and suppliers.

Greentech considers diversity an important asset and remains committed to
ensuring equal opportunities and rights for employees and therefore does not
tolerate discrimination or harassment based on religion, race, ethnicity, gender,
age, sexuality, political opinion or other status.

Diversity in management - Reporting
according to section 99b of the
Danish Financial Statements Act.

Greentech has a diverse workforce with a broad employee composition in

Greentech also maintains focus on

GREENTECH ENERGY SYSTEMS A/S

encouraging diversity at managerial
levels, an initiative which was
introduced in 2013 with the policy on
equal representation in management
centred on gender distribution in
the Board of Directors. In line with
section 139a of the Danish Companies
Act, the Board of Directors, thus, has
implemented a target figure for the
proportion of women, who currently
constitute the underrepresented sex
of the Board:
š It is the aim of the Board of Directors
of Greentech that 2 female board
members be elected by the General
Meeting before the end of 2017.
Greentech is ambitious on the topic
and has already taken an important
step towards its fulfilment with the
election of Mrs. Michèle Bellon as new
member of the Board of Directors at
the Annual General Meeting in April
2014. Hence, Greentech’s Board
of Directors currently consists of
7 members - of which 6 are male
and 1 is female.
Greentech makes targeted efforts
to achieve the goal on gender

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REVIEW | 34

distribution within a shorter time
frame. The target may, however,
be amended, and it is always the
primary criteria that the candidates
proposed for the Board of Directors
are selected considering their
suitability based on professional
and personals skills and competences.
Additionally, the Company has
adopted policies regarding the
proportion of gender in the other
management levels of the Company:
Greentech is still committed to working
towards creating and maintaining
equal opportunities for women and
men at all management levels in the
Company. In connection with all
recruitment, including recruitment at
management level, it is Greentech’s
policy to fulfil the Company’s
requirements for employees with the
necessary skills and competences,
regardless of gender, age, ethnicity etc.
When choosing between equally
qualified candidates, the diversity
among the employees shall be taken
into consideration. In connection with
recruitment for managerial positions it
should be ensured, where possible,

GREENTECH ENERGY SYSTEMS A/S

that the candidates invited for interview
include both men and women.

increase awareness and of empowerment among the employees regarding the
rules of conduct and business ethics was implemented.

At year-end 2014, the managerial
positions below top-management
level in the Company were covered by
respectively 71% male managers and
29% female managers. This gender
distribution was generally in line with
the previous year.

Greentech operates in an international context, currently in five different
European countries (Denmark, Germany, Italy, Poland and Spain) which all
constitutes fairly limited risk factors in terms of businesses’ exposure to human
rights violations. Consequently, Greentech does not conduct any activities, liaise
or contract with business partners or suppliers in countries considered high-risk
in terms of negatively impacting human rights.

Ethics and behaviour
Transparency and compliance with
national and international regulation
and standards are considered
cornerstones in Greentech’s business
behaviour, and the Company is
committed to undertake its activities
and perform its practices responsibly
with due consideration and respect of
internal and external procedures and
guidelines.

Greentech has not prepared a specific policy on human rights as, so far, the Company
has not deemed it relevant, considering its business activities and locations.
In the future, Greentech will continuously endeavour to expand its corporate
responsibility efforts by integrating environmental and social aspects in its
planning and decision-making processes. These efforts will be based on the
topics most relevant with respect to Greentech’s core business and commercial
goals as this is the best way in which Greentech can contribute through relevant
initiatives to the benefit of the Company and of its stakeholders.

Fotocampillos
Spain

A code of ethics has been introduced
for the majority of the Group
companies which addresses relevant
issues and prescribes the correct
behaviour in interactions with the
Company’s internal and external
stakeholders. In 2014, a system to

ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REVIEW | 35

