Corporate social responsibility
The Group's work with corporate social responsibility,
including climate and human rights, is embedded with
the Executive Management and in the Group's core
values of being a credible, dynamic and responsible
organisation.
The state of the environment and the needs of
consumers and employees are taken into
consideration as a natural part of management's
decision-making and prioritisation processes. Matas
gives priority to its corporate social responsibility work
by being especially focused on the health and
environment field. This forms part of the basic training
of materialists, and the Group has the ambition of
increasing its contribution towards the prevention of
illness and disease in Denmark.

Environment
The Group is active in the efforts to safeguard the
environment. The Matas Return System is a
nationwide recycling scheme in which Matas has taken
the initiative to collect empty packaging from all
products sold in Matas retail stores. Customers
returned 20 tonnes of plastic packaging for recycling in
the 2013/14 financial year. Moreover, Matas arranged
for recycling of all packaging used to transport goods
to Matas retail stores, which added up to a total of 29
tonnes of transport plastic and 492 tonnes of
cardboard. Matas has a goal of increasing the volume
of plastic packaging returned by customers by 5% in
the new financial year.
PLASTIC PACKAGING RETURNED BY CUSTOMERS (TONNES)
25
20

sales of Matas own brand products with its Nordic
Ecolabel.
REPUTATION SURVEY
According to a survey conducted by the Reputation
Institute in February 2014, consumers have rated the
reputation of Matas second-best among the 40 most
visible companies in Denmark. The survey covered
seven parameters, including corporate social
responsibility, ethics and the working environment.

The Danish Society for Nature Conservation
recommends that consumers buy Matas's own
recyclable shopping bags. Profits from the sale of
shopping bags go to the Matas Environmental Fund,
which provides plants and sun shade tents for
playgrounds at child care institutions. Up to and
including the end of March 2014, the Fund had
provided support for 1,952 day care institutions, 101
of them in the past financial year.
The Group is focusing on reducing its energy
consumption at Matas's headquarters and in the
stores: energy consumption has been reduced by
more than 3.2 million kWh since 2009. Consumption in
the 2013 calendar year increased by approximately
770,000 kWh, which corresponds to more than 260
tonnes of CO2, and was attributable to investment in
new stores. By the end of the past financial year, the
Group had replaced more than 10,000 halogen
spotlights in the retail stores with energy-saving LED
spotlights. This is expected to contribute to a
reduction of 850,000 kWh, or more than 285 tonnes of
CO2, in the 2014 calendar year.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN MWH

15

14,100

10

12,100

5

10,100

0

8,100
2011/12

2012/13

2013/14

6,100
4,100
2,100

During the financial year, Matas and the Danish
Society for Nature Conservation continued their
collaboration to identify joint focus areas for nature
and environmental protection. The Society for Nature
Conservation supports the Matas Return System and
18

100
2009

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2013/14 | Management’s Review | Corporate social responsibility

2010

2011

2012

2013

In the financial year, the Group continued its proactive
work to improve all the chain's own brand products to
align them with the latest knowledge about the impact
of various compounds on the environment and
consumer health. Moreover, all Matas-brand products
are subjected to bacteriological control by Eurofins
Steins Laboratorium.
By the end of the financial year, 94 Matas-brand
products had the right to use the Swan label, which is
the official Nordic ecolabel. Licences to use the Swan
label are only granted for the most environmentally
friendly products within each type of product. In
addition to the proactive requirements to the contents
of Matas-brand products, the Group has contractual
environmental and ethical requirements to all other
products in each product range.

objective of this collaboration is to ensure that people
in Denmark can get the best personal and professional
advice on sun protection.
Key to preventing skin cancer is for people to know
how and when to protect themselves from the sun.
For this reason, Matas and the Danish Cancer Society
are in a close collaboration to increase people's
knowledge about how much sun lotion should be used
and the minimum UV index at which protection is
needed. Awareness of the right amount of sun lotion
to use has increased in recent years, and the goal is a
further increase of this awareness in 2014.

The requirements set by Matas are stricter than those
applicable under Danish law, and they include a
requirement that suppliers guarantee that, going
forward, all products supplied to Matas will be
developed and manufactured in compliance with the
UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the ILO's
conventions and recommendations regarding child
labour.

In the past financial year, 32% of people in Denmark
knew the UV index at which they needed to protect
themselves from the sun. Matas is partnering the
Danish Cancer Society to increase this rate to more
than 35% in 2014, achieving this goal through focused
and motivating communication aimed at the target
group through shop assistants with competencies
updated regularly by participation in training courses
on the latest knowledge about sun protection.
Additional information on the partnership with the
Danish Cancer Society is available under the heading
"Accountability" on the Matas website.

Sickness prevention and health

Intellectual capital

The Group continued its collaboration with the Danish
Heart Association in the financial year, with the
objective of helping reduce the number of women
suffering from heart disorders, as one in four women
in Denmark do today. Up to and including the
2013/2014 financial year, Matas has donated a total of
more than DKK 12.6 million to the Danish Heart
Association. The donation for the past financial year
was more than DKK 2.5 million, representing a yearon-year increase of 32%. This contribution was
financed by fund-raising through sales of support
bracelets and a proportion of sales from certain
Matas-brand products.

The Group's intellectual capital is deemed to be
essential to meet the Group's growth strategy.
Professional advice under the motto "Good advice
makes the difference" will lead to continued good
customer experiences, so that the Group's strong
market position can be improved even further.

In collaboration with the Heart Association, Matas
regularly offers free blood pressure testing in the
stores: some 5,500 persons had their blood pressure
checked in Matas retail stores over the course of the
financial year. The target for the coming financial year
is a 5% increase in the number of people who have
their blood pressure tested at Matas and a 5%
increase in consumer awareness of Matas's
collaboration with the Danish Heart Association.

In the 2013/2014 financial year, the Group continued
its efforts to provide an excellent and attractive
workplace where employee competencies and
personal and professional development are in focus.
For this reason, Matas continues to invest in a
structured training programme for all Matas full-time
shop assistants.

Matas also works closely together with the Danish
Cancer Society to reduce the risk of skin cancer, which
is the most common type of cancer in Denmark. The

Employee competencies
At the end of the financial year, the Group had 2,216
full-time employees (FTE), up from 2,051 at the end of
the 2012/2013 financial year. The increase reflects the
acquisition of 13 associated stores during the financial
year.

Matas is the only retail chain that trains materialists,
and approximately 80% of the chain's staff are either
undergoing training or trained as materialists. The
two-year training programme consists of
apprenticeship at a Matas store and a training

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2013/14 | Management's Review| Corporate social responsibility

19

programme consisting of four modules,
correspondence school courses, a course in OTC
medicine and a final test. After completion of the
programme, materialists have the option to specialise.
Store managers receive additional training in
management, coaching, operations and accounting to
ensure that they have the necessary tools to handle
the day-to-day management of a store. Moreover,
store managers can draw on sales training staff, and
employees are annually invited to participate in a
number of courses and conferences arranged by
Matas and its suppliers.
At Matas we want to continue to attract, retain and
develop committed employees with the skills to
provide specialised service to our customers. For this
reason, we prepare plans for the development of skills
in each head office employee and each of the
employees at every store in the chain.
At Matas, it is the knowledge and know-how of the
employees which ensures that customers get the best
advice from industry specialists. This knowledge and
know-how is constantly updated through
supplementary training in health and beauty. To a
significant degree, the Group trains its own managers,
with five levels of management training offered to
materialists. This management training helps improve
and expand the skills of store managers, their deputies
and young talents: skills that are key to the personal
and professional development of materialists and to
the strategic tasks and projects necessary to ensure
the continuing success of the Group.
The workplace
The Group continually seeks to encourage and
promote an inclusive and diverse working
environment and to create a safe and healthy working
environment for its employees. Matas wishes to
reflect the diversity that exists in society. Special
employment programmes such as Projekt KLAP and
part-time work schemes contribute to the inclusive
working environment we wish to create. In
collaboration with the Danish LEV society and Projekt
KLAP, Matas offers service staff jobs to the
developmentally challenged. At the end of the
financial year, the Group had 12 employees under
Projekt KLAP.

annual employee development interviews and semiannual surveys of employee satisfaction at all levels in
the Group. The employee satisfaction survey shows a
very good score of more than 4.1 out of 5 for the
Group as a whole. Survey results are mainly used to
handle any issues that may exist.
EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION
5
4
3
2
1
0
Nov. 2011 May 2012 Nov. 2012 May 2013 Nov. 2013

In the expectation that it will be possible to increase
general employee satisfaction in the chain, action
plans are laid for the 40 stores performing lowest in
the employee satisfaction survey. Partly as result of
these efforts, the level of sickness absence in the
Group is low compared with the level in the Danish
labour market in general and, more specifically,
compared with other workplaces with the same
gender distribution.
SICKNESS ABSENCE (%)
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
2011/12

2013/14

Under the heading of "Accountability", Matas's
website contains further details on the Group's efforts
in this respect; this information is updated regularly.

Welfare and responsibility in the workplace
The Group makes proactive efforts to ensure
employee job satisfaction, working actively to
maintain a good working environment and holding

20

2012/13

Matas A/S | Annual Report 2013/14 | Management’s Review | Corporate social responsibility

