Statutory corporate social responsibility report

Monberg & Thorsen has policies and positions on corporate social responsibility, but they do not comply with the requirements as defined in Section 99(a) of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Consequently, Monberg & Thorsen does not report specifically on its actions in this area or the results of these actions. The ethical policy forms the overall framework for all our policies and consequently our activities. We want to demonstrate corporate responsibility, show consideration for people and the environment, thereby acting in a socially and ethically responsible manner in all business areas. The policy states, among other things, that we must comply with local legislation and that we do not accept bribery, forced labour, child labour or discrimination. Monberg & Thorsen is a holding company. Its sole activity is its ownership interest in MT Højgaard. Our CSR action is consequently carried out indirectly through our management representation in MT Højgaard, and reference is made to MT Højgaard’s annual report and MT Højgaard's CSR report on their website www.mth.com for further details. The focus in recent years has been on the environment and health and safety. Climate and environment MT Højgaard focuses extensively on responsible conduct in relation to the climate and the environment, including reduction of the companies’ environmental impact, partly by generating less waste and reusing waste, energy savings and eco-friendly products and building materials. Health and safety A good, safe working environment is essential to employees and their families and also for the financial results. MT Højgaard strives to reduce the number of occupational injuries, partly by using clear safety and work instructions. It is important that all employees feel that we look after their safety and wellbeing properly by providing a good working environment, and consequently also making sure that everyone becomes involved and feels responsible for improving health and safety, including the noise level, ergonomics and the psychosocial working environment. Women in management We do not discriminate on grounds of gender, race or religion when recruiting, training or promoting employees. At the same time, we want to promote the proportion of women in management at the MT Højgaard Group’s management levels. Consequently, a policy on women in management was introduced in the middle of 2013. At the same time, a target was set that, in 2016, a minimum of two of the six externally elected members of MT Højgaard’s Board of Directors should be women.