Management’s Review
Shareholder Information and Corporate Governance
Statutory Statement on Corporate Social Responsibility under section 99(a)and (b) of the Danish Financial Statements ActRIAS A/S wants to carry on its activities in a responsible manner and continuouslyworks on creating a linkage between the Company’s strategy andresponsibility with respect to the society in which the Company operates. ForRIAS A/S, the work relating to corporate social responsibility is an ongoingprocess, and in 2013/14 the Company continued to focus on such work andto structure the required internal processes.Based on an assessment of materiality, the Company is working on areassuch as staff, environment, suppliers and anti-corruption. On the next page,we describe the overall policy for how the policy has been turned into actionand, where possible, what has been achieved.

The Executive Board is appointed by the Board of Directors, and the Board
of Directors determines the employment terms of the Executive Board. The
Executive Board is responsible for the day-to-day operation of RIAS A/S,
including the Company’s development and results of activities and operations
as well as internal affairs. The Board of Directors’ delegation of responsibilities to the Executive Board has been laid down in the Company’s rules
of procedure and by the rules of the Danish Companies Act. The Executive
Board of RIAS A/S consists of one person.
Remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Executive Board
The Board of Directors has adopted a very simple remuneration policy for
both the Board of Directors and the Executive Board. The remuneration policy
does not comprise any incentive programmes or other variable components.
The Board of Directors of RIAS A/S is not comprised by any bonus or option
schemes. The total annual remuneration to the Board of Directors is approved by the General Meeting in connection with the adoption of the Annual
Report.
In 2013/14, the remuneration to the Executive Board consisted of a base
salary including the usual benefits such as company car, telephone and a bonus scheme. The bonus is determined discretionarily by the Board of Directors
based on an overall assessment.
The employment terms of the Executive Board, including remuneration and
resignation terms, are considered in accordance with the general standards
for such positions.
Audit Committee
The Board of Directors of RIAS A/S also acts as Audit Committee.
The overall purpose of the Audit Committee is to minimise the risk of material
misstatement of financial information – internally and externally. In practice,
this is done by analysing the internal control environment, financial reporting,
audit, accounting policies applied and presentation of interim financial statements and financial statements in general.
The Audit Committee focuses on a continued development of the control
environment and a continuous assessment of procedures and financial and
accounting issues of material importance to the financial information. The
external auditors may be called in to participate in a meeting with the Audit
Committee.
Statutory Statement on Corporate Social Responsibility under section 99(a)
and (b) of the Danish Financial Statements Act
RIAS A/S wants to carry on its activities in a responsible manner and continuously works on creating a linkage between the Company’s strategy and
responsibility with respect to the society in which the Company operates. For
RIAS A/S, the work relating to corporate social responsibility is an ongoing
process, and in 2013/14 the Company continued to focus on such work and
to structure the required internal processes.
Based on an assessment of materiality, the Company is working on areas
such as staff, environment, suppliers and anti-corruption. On the next page,
we describe the overall policy for how the policy has been turned into action
and, where possible, what has been achieved.

Social conditionsSecuring good social conditions for its employees is an important elementfor the Company. Each month, we follow up on absence due to illness toimprove job satisfaction. Overall, the Company is working on currentlyensuring the best possible working environment. As in previous years, theCompany is very aware of employee health due to a number of coincidedlong-term periods of illness which have specifically resulted in the Companycontributing to a health insurance scheme.EnvironmentThe Company’s impact on the environment is limited and mainly consistsof PVC waste from products and CO2 consumption related to the Company’sbuildings. The Company is making a targeted effort to reduce theenvironmental impact from PVC waste, and the Company cooperates withthe Wuppi organisation which collects and disposes of PVC waste in asustainable way. RIAS’s share is included together with other plastic distributorsin Denmark. No specific figures per distributor are available and,therefore, we are not able to state any result.Moreover, the Company has initiated a project with a view to reducing theenergy consumption by introducing various cost reduction measures bothin warehouses, production and the administration. A total measurement ofthe CO2 consumption has not yet been made and, therefore, we are notable to state any result.Suppliers and human rightsThe Company typically enters into long-term supplier relations, and thesuppliers are primarily located in Europe. Apart from financial and qualityassessments, the overall assessment of a supplier also includes an assessmentof whether the supplier shows general social responsibility, includingthat the supplier does not use child labour etc.Anti-corruptionThe Company has implemented a whistle-blower hotline where employeeshave the possibility of informing impartial persons in a law firm aboutbreach or suspicion of breach of law, including corruption or cartel formation.The hotline has not received any calls in 2013/14.Policy on the composition of the Board of Directors and the Executive BoardThe members of the Board of Directors are elected based on their overallcompetencies; however, the Board of Directors also aims at a gender compositionwhich is more equal and at having 15% women on the Boardof Directors within four years from now. As the Executive Board currentlyconsists only of one member, no target has been set for the gender compositionof the Executive Board.It is the staff policy of RIAS A/S that the ratio of women in other managementbodies is to be increased.RIAS A/S intends to take the following action to obtain a more equalgender composition in the other management bodies:• Work towards having minimum 25% female executives in the Companywithin four years. At 30 September 2014 the ratio is 0%.• Make the Company attractive to executives of both genders, eg byensuring a staff policy which promotes the career opportunities ofwomen and men.• Create a framework for the career development of the individualperson through networks with executives in other companies.

RIAS ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14

23

