financial highlights | financial review | corporate governance
shareholder information | statements | financial statements | company information
CORPORaTE gOVERNaNCE

|

17

CORPORaTE gOVERNaNCE

Statutory statement oncorporate social responsibilitypolIcySPEAS believes there is a positive connection between acompany’s long-term success and its compliance with aswell as ongoing adaptation to ethical and environmentalmarket norms. Thus, the private equity funds’ policiesregarding responsible investment form an integral part ofthe investment process, including whether the individualprivate equity funds have adopted any recognised code ofpractice or equivalent in the area.SPEAS has only indirect influence on the individual privateequity funds’ choice of companies in which to invest.However, the Company’s basic premise is that companiescomply with laws and rules determined by national authoritiesin the markets in which the companies operateas well as with internationally adopted norms concerninghuman rights and labour standards.The Company has not drawn up specific policies on humanrights or environmental impact.ImplementAtIonSPEAS assesses (i) whether the private equity companyhas adopted a code of practice or equivalent on responsibleinvestment, (ii) to what extent the private equity companyconsiders other relevant ethical and environmentalissues prior to making an investment, (iii) how relevantethical and environmental issues are addressed by theportfolio companies during the holding period, and (iv)the ongoing reporting to the investors regarding statusand development of same.If a private equity company has not adopted a recognisedcode of practice on responsible investment or implementeda satisfactory policy in this regard, SPEAS will enterinto a dialogue with the private equity company with aview to including relevant ethical and environmental issuesin the investment process.reSultSOn all investment commitments made within the lastfour financial years, SPEAS has received declarationsof intent from the private equity funds in question tointegrate codes of practice on responsible investmentinto their investment processes and implement these intheir portfolio companies. SPEAS has not recognised anybreach of these commitments in our ongoing reporting ordialogue with the private equity funds. As SPEAS does notinvest directly in portfolio companies, but only wields indirectinfluence through private equity funds, we do notfind it possible to further evaluate any results achieved orexpectations to future achievement.Targets for gender representationThe target of the Board of Directors of ScandinavianPrivate Equity A/S is to have at least one female boardmember before end-2017.