Corporate Governance

Social responsibility (section 99 a)
Schouw & Co.'s general policy is for all of the
Group’s companies, as a minimum, to comply
with relevant legislation and regulations applying
in the countries and local communities in which
they operate. None of the portfolio companies
have any outstanding issues with the authorities
of those countries.

from advanced process production in which issues like ongoing reduction of energy consumption and waste of input materials form an essential part of their business model. Most of the
Group's operations are located in Denmark or
neighbouring European countries with well-established and detailed legislation. However, the
Group also has business operations in non-European countries, mainly in Malaysia and Chile, but
the production facilities there are generally fully
on par with the European units. In Europe as well
as the other countries, our companies generally
employ a skilled workforce.
Considering the assumed high standards in our
portfolio companies, we have not yet found it
necessary to lay down specific CSR policies or establish systems or mechanisms inherent to such
policies. Accordingly, Schouw & Co. has not
adopted a specific policy for reducing the climate
impact from the company's activities or specific
policies pertaining to human rights.
Schouw & Co. intends to investigate its options
for working out appropriate guidelines for structuring CSR efforts across the Group's companies.
The website www.schouw.dk contains illustrative
examples of activities in our individual subsidiaries.

Schouw & Co. operates a decentralised group of
companies that derive the bulk of their revenue

Annual Report 2014 Schouw & Co. 19

Corporate Governance
Gender composition (Section 99 b)
The Board of Directors of Schouw & Co. has fixed
the following targets for the gender composition
of the management.
For the measurement period from April 1, 2013 to
March 31, 2017, the target is to increase the number of women board members of Aktieselskabet
Schouw & Co. from one member currently, equal
to 14%, to at least two members, equal to at least
28%. A target has also been defined for the Group
that all large Danish reporting class C companies
should have representation of at least one women
board member, equal to at least 20%. At the start
of the measurement period, none of these companies had women board members.
There have been no changes to the boards of directors involved since the current targets were
fixed. Accordingly, the Group has not made progress in meeting the targets fixed.
In 2013, the Board of Directors of Schouw & Co.
adopted, on behalf of the Group, the following
policy for increasing the proportion of the underrepresented gender at the Group's other management levels.

individual employees build management experience.
The companies of the Schouw & Co. Group will
also make a dedicated effort to ensuring the best
possible women representation among candidates
being considered for management positions.
In September 2014, Schouw & Co. held its first
ever symposium, which was attended by 60 senior managers from our portfolio companies across
the world. A total of 8% of the participants at the
event were women, a percentage that is lower
than the gender composition of the Group's employees in general.
At the end of 2014, BioMar reorganised its senior
international management team, setting up an executive board consisting of two persons and a sixperson management team. Following the reshuffling, the management team has one female member. Previously, there were no female members of
BioMar's senior management.

Schouw & Co. is aware that the proportion of
women at management level in the Group is generally lower than the gender composition of the
Group's employees in general. Accordingly, the
companies of the Schouw & Co. Group will make
a special effort to create a framework to support
the career development of individual women employees, for example through networks, mentor
schemes or other specific initiatives that may help
Annual Report 2014 Schouw & Co. 20

