Sydbank’s CSR Report
for 2014

SYDBANK / CSR 2014

1

CSR Report for 2014

Preface
Responsible conduct in everyday life and sound business
practices go hand in hand. Consequently Sydbank follows the
international guidelines on corporate social responsibility and
we will act responsibly at all times towards our clients, society
and our employees.
Only a solid bank can act responsibly. On the basis of guidelines
established by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Danish FSA
carried out a comprehensive asset quality review (AQR) and a
stress test in 2014 to assess the robustness of 123 banking
groups in Europe. In this connection Sydbank was the best performing and most robust bank in Denmark. This is good for the
Bank and our clients, who now have the word of the authorities
that Sydbank is a solid bank, even if new financial storm clouds
gather on the horizon.
Banks’ contribution to growth
In 2014 Sydbank increased its lending in a market that in other
respects was characterised by stagnation or even a decline. There
was talk of a credit crunch in 2014. Not at Sydbank. Society
needs loans and credit facilities which Sydbank provides on an
informed and well-founded basis. In this way Sydbank helps
healthy Danish businesses to finance their investments.
Sydbank sees its social responsibility as the sum of its activities
and consequently Sydbank contributes in a multitude of ways.

Karen Frøsig, CEO

SYDBANK / CSR 2014

2

CSR Report for 2014

This statutory CSR report for Sydbank A/S is part of the 2014

ment of these assets, we attach importance to the fact that the

Annual Report and covers the accounting period from 1 January

companies invested in comply with the UN Principles for

2014 to 31 December 2014.

Responsible Investment (UN PRI). This entails for instance:
• that environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG)

Sydbank is a relationship bank founded on long-standing customer relationships, thanks to the skills of its employees. Honesty is a

issues are incorporated in investment decisions
• that we apply a commitment approach in relation to influencing

prerequisite to trust in each other and one’s business relations.

companies invested in that do not fully live up to our expecta-

As stated in Sydbank’s client policy, we say things the way they

tions regarding ESG issues.

are, and this also applies to Sydbank’s CSR efforts.
Collaboration with GES
Embedding corporate social responsibility

To ensure that investments made by Sydbank comply with the

Sydbank’s CSR policy has been updated and approved by the

principles for responsible investment and incorporate ESG issues,

Board of Directors in 2015. In future Sydbank’s corporate social

Sydbank has engaged the services of GES Investment Services

responsibility will – as other business-related considerations – be

(GES). The collaboration involves the following:

included in major strategic business decisions.

• Twice a year GES screens the investments of Sydbank’s pooled
plans that invest in equities and corporate bonds from mature

Focus on human rights and CO2 emissions

markets. As a result of the screenings in 2014 GES has actively

We believe that business-driven and prioritised efforts produce

engaged with 22 companies, focusing on companies that have

the best results. Therefore the updated policy contains choices

violated widely accepted international conventions and norms

that will be implemented in 2015. The choices concern two areas.
That Sydbank carries out a systematic investigation of the Bank’s

concerning environmental and social issues.
• Twice a year GES performs an extended screening of the invest-

activities in relation to basic human rights and that Sydbank sets

ments of Sydbank’s pooled plans that invest in equities from

targets to reduce its CO2 emissions.

emerging markets. This screening is identical to the screening
for the mature markets but it also involves a screening of

Economy

investments in weapons as well as a rating of businesses’ expo-

Sydbank signed the UN Principles for Responsible Investment

sure to ESG issues and their readiness to tackle problems in this

(UN PRI) in September 2010 and has thereby made a commit-

context. During 2014 this involved 74 visits and 30 conference

ment to incorporate environment, social and corporate govern-

calls with businesses in Africa, the Middle East, the Far East and

ance (ESG) issues when selecting equities and corporate bonds in

Latin America. As a result GES has ongoing engagement cases

which Sydbank invests.

involving a total of 120 companies from emerging markets.

In line with its fundamental values, Sydbank does not wish to

Exclusion from portfolios

invest in companies that violate widely accepted international

GES has already excluded a number of companies that have

conventions and norms as formulated in for instance

activities within nuclear weapons, land mines and cluster bombs.

the UN Global Compact concerning businesses’ positions on

In addition there may be companies where the engagement

human rights, labour rights, environmental issues and anti-cor-

approach proves to be unproductive.

ruption.
Our activities concerning responsible investment are based on
Sydbank exercises its social responsibility in the investment area

influencing companies through dialogue. Nevertheless companies

primarily by the way in which the assets of the various portfolios

may be excluded from the investment universe that portfolios

managed by Sydbank are invested. When planning the manage-

managed by Sydbank may invest in.

SYDBANK / CSR 2014

3

CSR Report for 2014

Credit

Sydbank’s policy is that management positions are filled by the

Sydbank’s credit activities must be consistent with the Bank’s

best candidates and also that the qualifications of talented

business model and the risk profile chosen. Society needs loans

women are enhanced. When recruiting people for management

and credit facilities which Sydbank provides on an informed and

positions Sydbank strives to the extent possible to ensure that

well-founded basis. Concrete action plans are made as regards

both genders are represented among the final three candidates.

commitments that clients are unable to manage.
The share of women in management positions at Sydbank is
As stated in its CSR policy and credit policy, Sydbank does not

29%. 48% of branch managers are women. As a result the per-

wish to take part in financial transactions where the motives or

centage is unchanged compared to 2013.

business models may be called into question regardless of
whether they are believed to be legal. Whether Sydbank decides

Working environment inspections

not to take part in financial transactions depends on an assess-

The Danish Working Environment Authority paid nine inspection

ment in each situation and there is no case registration per se.

visits to Sydbank in 2014. Eight of the visits resulted in a green
Smiley and one visit resulted in a yellow Smiley.

Climate and environment
Sydbank is working to reduce its energy consumption and CO2

Safety

emissions. In 2014 detailed monitoring of energy consumed was

As in the industry in general Sydbank has witnessed a decline in

implemented at all Sydbank’s premises. In 2015 specific targets

the number of robberies. In 2014 one robbery took place at a

will be set for Sydbank’s energy consumption.

Sydbank branch.

People

Sydbank makes an active contribution to reduce financial crime

Sydbank supports the UN Guiding Principles on Business and

and fraud. In 2014 Sydbank introduced a new and improved sys-

Human Rights. The work to identify how Sydbank influences

tem for reporting money laundering and the number of cases

basic human rights will be carried out in 2015. Depending on the

reported by Sydbank corresponds to the Bank’s market share. In

results, activities will be set in motion to remedy any negative

2014 all customer-facing employees attended a course on

impact.

anti-money laundering rules.

Women in management

In 2014 Sydbank introduced a whistleblower scheme managed by

Sydbank believes in the value of diversity among employees,

Compliance.

including equal gender distribution. This contributes to a better
working environment. Sydbank will promote the opportunities for

Clients

women and men to have equal access to management positions.

Long-standing customer relationships are based on trust. This is
why Sydbank measures the quality of meetings with clients.

Sydbank’s objective is that women will make up 25% of the top

Customer satisfaction as regards meetings is measured by asking

management (members of the Board of Directors elected by the

clients to fill in a questionnaire with six questions after the meet-

general meeting), corresponding to at least two members, before

ing. 14,995 questionnaires were answered by clients in 2014. The

2019.

average satisfaction score was 9.5, with 10 being the highest.

This target was not reached in 2014. Sadly, Susanne Beck Nielsen,
member of the Board of Directors elected by the general meeting, passed away in the beginning of 2015. Consequently there
are currently no women members elected by the general meeting
on Sydbank’s Board of Directors.

SYDBANK / CSR 2014

4

CSR Report for 2014

Active contribution to society through the Bank’s funds.
Number of
donations

Total amount donated
(DKKm)

459

6.7

Smallest donation

1,000
(DKK)

Largest donation

200,000
(DKK)

Sponsorships
Sydbank takes pride in being actively involved in local association
activities and sports activities in the entire market area. A large
number of sponsorships to enhance an active leisure life and cultural life are nurtured locally as well as regionally.
Furthermore Sydbank makes donations to charitable organisations operating in the poorest areas of the world. Through
WAWCAS (Women at Work, Children at School) Sydbank supports efforts to help Nepalese women make a living and send
their children to school.
Funds
Sydbank Fonden, Sydbank Sønderjyllands Fond and
TrelleborgFonden support a wide range of cultural and general
interest activities in Denmark and South Schleswig.
In addition Sydbank awarded 58 travel grants of DKK 10,000 to
young students in 2014.

SYDBANK / CSR 2014

5

