ANNUAL
REPORT
2014

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

Corporate Social Responsibility
UIE:
Since its foundation, UIE has invested in the agroindustrial sector, particularly palm oil. As UIE is a holding
company, it has not developed its own CSR policies,
including human rights and environmental impacts.
However, as it invests in companies that depend largely
on natural resources, it highly supports UP and MSAB
to operate in an ethical and professional manner, thus
encouraging them to:

An overview of the CSR work and commitments of UP is
illustrated below. MSAB is not included, as it is a holding
company with shares in six publicly listed companies that
each have their own CSR policy. For further information
about the issues relevant for each company, please see
the companies’ annual reports, sustainability reports and
their websites.

• protect the environment and natural resources by
applying environmentally responsible production
methods;
• secure the well-being of employees by providing good
and safe working conditions; and
• uphold human rights and be responsible members of
the communities that they are part of.

UP: Integrated pest management is a key component within UP’s operations. On the picture, one can observe the initiatives taken by UP’s biodiversity
department to better understand the positive attributes by encouraging the use of leopard cats as a means of biological control against rats in UP’s oil
palm plantations in Kalimantan. To date, 7 leopard cats have been fitted with radio-collars to provide information about the habitat of leopard cats
and their predatory skills.

38

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

ANNUAL
REPORT
2014

UP:
UP’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy focuses on
continuous care, commitment and responsibility towards
its employees, the environment, the community and the
marketplace in which it operates. UP remains committed
to conducting business in a manner that achieves
sustainable growth whilst maintaining a high degree of
social and environmental responsibility.
A vital part of UP’s CSR Policy is its commitment to the
Principles and Criteria of the Roundtable on Sustainable
Palm oil (“RSPO”). UP was one of the initial palm
plantation signatories to the RSPO, and has ever since
its establishment given much emphasis to developing the
criteria to define sustainable palm oil. The Company was
the first to achieve the re-certification of the RSPO, which
is valid from 2014 and five years ahead.
In October 2013, during the launch of The Malaysian
Chapter of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions
Network (“UN-SDSN”), UP was cited as one of the
foremost companies in developing sustainable solutions
in Malaysia. In the UN-SDSN Malaysia Chapter, UP was
identified as a “Business with a soul”, acknowledging the
Company as a frontrunner in economic, environmental
and social sustainability.
UP continuously aims to align business values, purposes
and strategy based on the following CSR principles
grouped into four main areas:
Employees
The success and achievements of UP are highly correlated
with its employees. The employees are core assets of UP
and human capital is considered an integral part of its
operations. UP focuses on developing and enhancing
each individual’s skills and capabilities by providing
continuous training and supervision.
UP is committed to diversity in a working environment
where there is mutual trust and respect as well as safe
and healthy working conditions. UP continues to provide
a number of social welfare initiatives to its employees
and their families as well as the local community by
maintaining child care, primary schools, well-equipped
hospitals and health clinics, places of worship for
employees, bus subsidies for school children, a bakery
and a senior citizen home.

Community
UP strives to be a trusted corporate citizen and to fulfill its
responsibilities to the societies and local communities in
which it operates and thus is an integral part of.
UP believes in building good relationships with the
employees and their families, and is focused on promoting
socioeconomic policies and progress in the local
communities. Apart from supporting education, medical
care, housing and development activities, the Company
encourages communities to participate in sporting and
social activities by providing facilities such as football
fields, community halls, badminton courts etc.
UP has taken the initiative to start up Smallholders’ Field
Day, where farmers from local districts in Malaysia are
invited to the plantation to get a better understanding of
good agricultural practices, sustainability initiatives and
environmental protection. They are given training in safe
handling of pesticides, optimal harvesting procedures
and fertilizer application.
At its Indonesian Plantations, UP is actively involved
with a government project known as the Plasma Scheme
designed to assist smallholders to become independent
plantation growers. Under the Plasma Scheme, UP’s role
is to help local smallholders in supplying the necessary
resources (including the land being developed), training
in developing oil palm plantations, which includes
environmentally responsible land clearing and cultivation
as well as economic aid. Once developed, the developed
land will be handed over to the smallholder for selfmanagement.
Marketplace
UP is committed to providing high quality products
and services to customers worldwide through dedicated
employees and advanced technology. UP aims at
continuous improvement and works towards building
long-term relationships with all stakeholders.

39

ANNUAL
REPORT
2014

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

UP continuously strives to maintain the highest possible standards for both employees as well as their school going children. The Company has eight
primary schools and six kindergartens on its properties in Malaysia, providing education for almost 500 children aged 5 to 12 years.

Environment
UP strives to be recognised as a leader in sustainable
agricultural practices, respecting the balance between
economy and ecology. UP is committed to continuously
reducing the environmental impact of its operations by
improving procedures, minimizing waste and carbon
footprint as well as implementing new and greener
technologies.
UP is increasingly committed to the protection of
biodiversity, avoidance of high carbon stock land use
and the protection of wildlife. New frameworks such as
the High Carbon Stock (“HCS”) Assessment have been
implemented to evaluate the change in Carbon Stock
and to develop a detailed Sustainability Plan for the
landscape. UP applied the HCS assessment in October
2014 in accordance with RSPO’s New Planting Procedure
in land concessions in Indonesia for development of
PLASMA – smallholders.

40

Significant investments have also been made in
promoting green energy starting with the fully integrated
biomass reciprocating boiler and constructing four
biogas plants. These projects have helped significantly to
reduce emissions of CO2 by 70% and CH4 by 80% at the
operating units.
In 2014, a comprehensive update to the Life Cycle
Assessment (“LCA”) was undertaken, providing a clear
overview of the development in the Company’s efforts to
reduce its carbon footprint as well as identifying areas for
further improvements.
The LCA report shows that the green energy investments
have helped reduce the annual emissions of green house
gasses by at least 125,000 MT CO2 (eq). The company has
thus met its target of reducing the “Carbon Footprint” per
tonne of refined palm oil produced by 33% in 2014 when
compared to 2004 levels. With additional investments,
UP anticipates reducing “Carbon Footprint” per MT of
refined palm oil produced by 50% in 2018 compared to
previous 2004 levels.

UNITED
INTERNATIONAL
ENTERPRISES

UP is continuously working towards a dynamic and
innovative waste management and utilization system
aimed at achieving zero waste. For many years, UP has
been focusing on minimizing the use of pesticides via
the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Programme, e.g.
by establishing beneficial flowering plants, monitoring
pest outbreaks and using barn owls and leopard cats as
predators of rats in the plantation landscape. In January
2014, a team from the Biodiversity Division set out to
study the food and feeding behaviour of leopard cats. The
results to date reveal that leopard cats are residents in the
plantation, reproduce regularly and feed extensively on
rats, thus giving reason to continue the study in 2015.
Another initiative taken up by UP is the Cooper Tree
Species Reserve in UIE. The objective is to plant varieties
of endangered trees and establish a seedbank for these
endangered species, thereby securing their future and also
creating sanctuaries for birds and other small animals.

ANNUAL
REPORT
2014

More than 6,000 hectares have been set aside for
conservation purposes (jungle reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and green corridors), representing approximately 10% of UP’s total planted area. The aim is to
encourage biodiversity and wildlife on UP’s estate as
well as to preserve flora and fauna. In order to develop
effective conservation strategies, UP and Copenhagen
Zoo have formed a partnership, and a biodiversity
department has been established on UP’s Lada Estate in
Indonesia. The biodiversity department is responsible for
mainstreaming environmental concerns into standard
operational procedures, focusing on activities primarily
within biodiversity, habitat and ecosystem, forestry and
rehabilitation.
Find more information about UP’s commitment to
CSR in the company’s Annual Report and at www.
unitedplantations.com.

Young children participating and competing at a sports day at Jendarata Estate.

41

