STATUTORY REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
(cf. SECTION 99a and 99b OF THE DANISH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ACT)
Statutory report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for the financial year 2014 cf.
Section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act (in Danish “Lovpligtig
redegørelse for samfundsansvar, jf. Årsregnskabslovens § 99a og 99b”). This report is
a supplement to the Management’s review in the Zealand Pharma A/S Annual Report
2014 covering the period 1 January - 31 December 2014.
CEO statement
Zealand Pharma A/S (Zealand) has made a pledge to formalize and disclose the core values that have
underwritten our success, in which corporate social responsibility has played an important part. To
acknowledge and further develop this facet of our business, Zealand draws from the most pertinent
elements of some of the most widely implemented CSR initiatives in the world, notably the Global
Reporting Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact.
Zealand has found in these two systems complementary frameworks for both guiding and reporting its
CSR activities along several principles in the areas of human rights, the environment, labour and anticorruption. In addition to these, we have supplemented a provisional category for animal rights owing to
the unique exigencies of our industry.
Zealand’s CSR report does not reflect a static system of initiatives and policies. It is an ongoing process
that adapts to accommodate new ideas and activities to keep the company up to date with the
developments within this area.

CSR Steering Group & Strategy
To improve the transparency of its corporate social responsibility, the company has elevated CSR
questions from the CSR Steering Group to Zealand´s Executive Management. The following focus areas
have been considered important to Zealand’s business and operations.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Labour Practices & Decent Work
Occupational Health & Safety
Ethics and Quality in relation to Research and Development Activities
Environmental Sustainability
Anti-corruption & Pharmaceutical ethics

These focus areas are an amalgamation of existing Zealand values and policies together with the
principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) where they apply to the scope of the
company’s business. It was important to this process that Zealand compared its pre-existing policies
against the consolidated framework of the UNGC, which has served the dual purpose of an
internationally ratified CSR diligence standard and a reporting model.

Zealand has chosen to give particular emphasis to those areas which are unique to the Zealand’s
business as a biotechnology and research corporation with a diverse range of strategic partnerships.
These areas are Ethics and Quality in relation to Research and Development Activities, occupational
health and safety and finally pharmaceutical ethics. However, given that Zealand does not market or
commercialize drugs, there are many issues specific to the pharmaceutical industry that do not fall
within the scope of Zealand’s CSR initiatives. Zealand has no specific human rights policy in place.
Labour Practices & Decent Work
Zealand is cognisant that the wellbeing of its employees is important to its broader success.
Zealand has in place an Employee Manual to reflect the culture of its employees and workplace. With
respect to its policies, Zealand has taken as its starting point Danish Labour Law and in some cases gone
above and beyond what is required of public companies in order to be more considerate of and
responsive to the exigencies of its workforce.
All employees at Zealand have a job description, which is reviewed on a yearly basis.
Zealand is committed to develop its employees and provide continuous training. This policy has proven
to have synergistic benefits for both company and employee. Zealand takes very seriously its employee
development interviews (EDI) including clear goal setting, competence development and performance
evaluation which is performed yearly.
Zealand’s culture and policy is rooted in a philosophy respectful of diversity and as such is fully
compliant with Danish regulation regarding equal opportunity employment and equal remuneration for
men and women. Additionally, Zealand actively promotes an open, inclusive environment for its
employees, and has adopted English as its primary language to accommodate its substantial cohort of
international employees. The company has also been open-minded and forward thinking in its
employment development programs for PhD candidates and trainees, which are only now starting to
become a part of the orthodoxy for Danish company hiring practices.
A yearly employee satisfaction study is performed and measures the results from initiatives from the
previous year as well as identifies areas for improvement going forward. As an example the percentage
of employees that stated that Zealand is a good place to work amounted to 89% in 2014.
Occupational Health & Safety
Further to its policies on Labour Practices & Decent Work, Zealand has taken great care in ensuring the
safety of its workplace for all employees. The Company’s Occupational Health and Safety Organization
oversees the ongoing maintenance of working facilities in accordance with national standards. Regular
workplace audits are conducted. Zealand received a green smiley in 2014 following an audit of the
Danish Working Environment Authority indicating that Zealand has no issues with the Working
Environment Authority.
All Zealand employees are trained under standard safety protocol, through which they are given the
tools to manage their own occupational safety. Under this program, Zealand has had no incidents of
significant injury in 2014, as measured by days of absenteeism or convalescence taken due to workrelated injury. In 2012, Zealand and its Worker Environment Committee has also instituted a “Near-

2

Accident” Reporting Initiative to build on the Company’s strong safety track record and safeguard
against potential future accidents. In 2014 four “near accidents” were reported,
General health and wellbeing at Zealand is also taken seriously, and the company facilitates the good
health of its employees with gym and exercise facilities, as well as healthy food options. Health
insurance is offered to all employees.
Ethics and Quality in relation to Research and Development Activities
Zealand has chosen to build one common Quality Management System (QMS) for all Research and
Development activities that is described in a Quality Manual. Zealand’s quality policy describes
compliance with international recognized standards and guidelines in all stages of research and
development and do not place patients or animals at risk due to inadequate safety, quality or efficacy.
Activities not performed in-house are outsourced to qualified and approved vendor. It is recognized that
in outsourcing these activities, Zealand maintains the sponsor responsibility for the activities and quality
procedures are established to ensure that the outsourcing is established and managed in compliance
with relevant international regulations, legislations and guidelines, such as Good Manufacturing Practice
(GMP), Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and Good Clinical Practice (GCP).
Training sessions of employees in the QMS, Quality Policy and Standard Operating Procedures were
conducted in 2014.
Zealand ensures performance of internal and external audits according to approved audit plans.
Zealand’s philosophy towards animal rights and welfare is respectful, and reflective of the company’s
profound appreciation for their contribution to the advancement of science and medicine. Danish law
stipulates yearly inspections of the animal facilities, as well as comprehensive reporting protocols
overseeing experiments conducted during the year, processed through the governmental agency
Dyreforsøgstilsynet. The operational flow of information and reporting, upward from lab technician to
academic to department head, ultimately ensures a centralized destination for all of the company’s
pharmacology data, which is duly recorded, organized and sent to the regulatory authorities.
On top of its legal requirements, Zealand conducts voluntarily monthly veterinarian inspections of its
animal facilities. In 2014, there were no reported incidents of negligence. In addition, Zealand has an
internal ethical committee that screens all proposed in vivo experiments for compliance to regulatory
and ethical permissions.
Wherever possible, the company selects in vitro over in vivo experiments, making every effort to use
lower order animals when in vivo experiments are required, and as few as possible in all cases. The
necessity of animal experiments to Zealand’s research and development activities cannot be overstated,
and thus the company constantly strives for the greatest vigilance and care in its treatment of animals.
Environmental Sustainability
Zealand recognizes that it could stand to make improvements in areas of environmental sustainability.
However, Zealand has no specific environmental policy in place. In 2014, water use and emissions fell
within a reasonable range of what might be expected for a company of Zealand’s size and type, but the
company fared less well in terms of energy use. This can be accounted for in large part by the
demanding central heating and aeration requirements of the research facilities. As a matter of
3

occupational safety, the air in the laboratories is replaced with great frequency to ensure it remains
clean. Year round, but particularly during the winter, the incoming air must be climate controlled—
filtered and heated—while the outgoing air is released as an emission.
Zealand frequently uses its video conference room, which has served to significantly reduce the travel
costs. Indirectly, this investment will contribute reduced energy expenditure, fuel use, and emission
generation.
Anti-Corruption and Pharmaceutical Ethics
Zealand strives to safeguard its business against corruption and non-compliance where its employees
are most at risk.
Zealand has implemented a whistleblower program, which is approved by the Danish Data Protection
Agency. In 2014 no issues were reported.
The following categories are those most relevant to the company and its stakeholders:
Corruption & Compliance
Zealand actively promotes and maintains a policy of transparency and honesty with its employees.
Zealand’s “Employee Handbook” stipulates a set of policies, which specify the company’s standards for
its employees’ good and legal conduct.
Insider Trading
Zealand has taken every precaution to keep all its employees, board members, and certain stakeholders,
fully educated in and compliant with the company’s Insider Rules. The company distinguishes carefully
between those who are listed on its permanent “Insiders List,” and those who come into contact with
what is deemed “Insider Information.” In the latter case, Zealand takes every precaution to keep an
updated list concurrent with changes in certain employees’ knowledge of information regarding the
company’s strategically material events.
Pharmaceutical Ethics
The company has strict policies regarding the proper use and transfer of intellectual property. Since its
founding, Zealand has been able to refine its confidentiality and material transfer agreements to reflect
the critical changes of the industry, building on the extensive industry experience of many of its senior
members. Zealand’s quality and reputation as a business and scientific collaborator are of the utmost
importance to its strategic future, and it is therefore in the company’s and its stakeholders’ best
interests that Zealand employees are educated and kept abreast of policies regarding the proper and
legal management of external intellectual property.
Zealand has in 2014 had no indication of any violations of the above categories.

4

Diversity
Zealand believes that diversity within its leadership and workforce is a prerequisite for a creative and
innovative environment. When assessing diversity we look at gender, nationality and age.
The split of female vs. male employees as of February 28, 2015 were:

All employees
Scientific academics
Head of departments
Executive Management
Board of Directors

Female Male
57%
43%
44%
56%
33%
67%
50%
50%
0%
100%

Zealand is committed to hiring and retaining the most qualified employees without regard to race, creed,
gender or age, but strives for diversity throughout the organisation with respect to age, nationality and
gender.
Members of the Board of Directors currently constitute 1 woman and 8 men, of which 0 woman and 6
men has been elected at the Annual General Meeting (0% female representation). Female representation
on the Board of Directors decreased in 2014 from 1 to 0 AGM elected members. The target is to have a
minimum of 25 % AGM elected female board members within 2 years. The aim is to reach this goal through
the Nomination Committee’s processes, including an intention to recruit from a pool of nominations,
which includes at least one female candidate. The recommendation from the Nomination Committee for
the upcoming Annual General Meeting proposes at least one female to be elected in 2015.
The Executive Management team at Zealand constitutes 50% women and is highly international. Of the
head of departments, 33% were female by 28 February 2015.
Of the total workforce, 17% were non-Danish and of the Executive Management 75% were non-Danish
nationals.
The average age of the employees at Zealand was 44 years.

5

